Second


AoiNakamoto




Published: 2019





Welcome to the Quizchain




Welcome to the Quizchain

This chapter is an introduction to the quizchain experiment. What it is, what I want to achieve with it, and how to claim prizes.

What is the quizchain

The basic quizchain idea is to have Bitcoin puzzles linked to each other. In a pure format, you need to solve an earlier block to claim the prize for a later block.

Bitcoin puzzles already have a large advantage over legacy formats. You don't need to confirm solutions and you don't need to send prizes. That happens all without further work involved. And since all of that is automated, the fairness of the process is assured for everyone. No way that any player gets an unfair advantage in this setup.

The quizchain element adds many possibilities. For example, block A might need the solution of previous block B. Then block A can not be claimed and the solution not be checked until block B is solved. That way, one can have relatively easy blocks in the chain without seeing them solved immediately, because their survival is protected by another, more difficult block.

My motivations

My motivation with this experiment is to find out as much as I can about the format. What are the advantages over legacy Bitcoin puzzles? What use cases and variations of the format are possible? How can I mess up as a puzzle writer when posting (believe me, I have already found lots of answers to that one). How can I avoid those mistakes? How can I make it easier for players? How can I shut out robots from brute forcing answers?

There is one other little thing that motivates me. No big deal, but another reason that I am not going to stop this before posting the last block, no matter what happens.

How to claim prizes

The format has evolved a bit over the first 55 blocks. But here is what to do, taking block 63 as an example.

The question for that was:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

How should I call you, darling?

Format: [solution] TOMI If you don't get this, sorry, it is hard [link]

Link is all digits of private key for block 62, which starts with L4G and ends in qe3.

First three digits of hash are 888, another three in a row.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Let's explain. First you need to find what to put in [solution]. In this case it was the the correct way to address Alistair Darling in 2009. Or to be precise "The Rt hon Alistair Darling MP". I explain this in detail in chapter 13 of this story. Why that is the solution and how I think someone figured it out without hint in about eight hours. Short version: He was the Chancellor the Bitcoin Genesis Block refers to.

Then you need to find the wealth. TOMI means wealth in Japanese. But that acronym actually is supposed to mean "Thinking Only Method" for "TOM" and no particular meaning for "I".

I used to call this field BFUB, short for "brute force user block". If the solution is easily brute forced, I require finding this as well. Since the solution for this particular block is not easily brute forced, I can leave a friendly message in that field. If I do a multiple choice block or have a single capital letter as a solution, figuring out what to put in the TOMI field becomes part of the challenge.

The third thing you need is the link to the previous block. I often post it with the question, but if that does not happen, you need to find it by solving the previous block. I use the full private key of the previous block for the link.

I started out with using only the last three digits, which left the door open to brute force the link (happened with block 43). I then used 7 digits to make brute forcing more expensive. Now as a default I use the whole private key of the previous block, which makes brute forcing a link absolutely impossible.

I may use only the last seven digits if the previous block is not solved yet and I want to give people the ability to solve the block before the previous one. But default is the whole private key, all digits.

Putting these three elements together, we resolve the Format in the question:

Format: [solution] TOMI If you don't get this, sorry, it is hard [link]

The Rt Hon Alistair Darling MP TOMI If you don't get this, sorry, it is hard L4GWDy9Ld3ZydGCtFaHaaDEJe4YL5hAiSLsLgGzdEVQkNWgZUqu3

Take that string and do a MD5 hash of it with your favorite hashing tool. Note there is one space between the TOMI field string and the private key, not visible here well because of the line break.

Then look at the first three digits of the hash, provided in the block post. Here I provided 888.

If your hash matches, there is a very good chance that you have found the solution. Move on to check further.

Go to the "Mnemonic Code Converter" tool by Ian Coleman, found at iancoleman.io/bip39/. Look for the radio button "Show entropy details". Click that to open an input field and paste your hash to that field. Wait a moment while the tool calculates. Then go down to the Derived Addresses section. If you see the address of the funding transaction (provided in the block), bingo, you have the right one. Find the private key to the right of that address and sweep it with any Bitcoin wallet software. Look for a menu point like "cold storage" to sweep a private key.

Only one thing left to do now. Please do a short comment where you tell people that you solved the block. If it is not part of a series that has unsolved blocks in it, also post your solution.

This shows me that a human has solved the block, not some bot running around trying random solutions. It also shows other players that I am not taking funds back after posting, but someone actually claimed the prize. It is also just common courtesy to me as a sponsor (though I have learned not to expect that from all winners).

More importantly, explain how you found the solution. That is interesting feedback for me as a writer and for other players who may learn something. On the other hand, maybe you don't want them to learn...

So, that is an introduction to claim prizes. One important thing left to understand now. Don't fall for giveaway scammers impersonating me. No one has bothered yet, but that fortunate state of affairs may change. Read the last section to avoid falling for what the Chinese called a type 20 scam in the 17th Century.

Chinese Bribe Scam

So I am reading the Book of Swindles published in 1617 to improve my misdirection skills. Very interesting book, shows that scammers in China knew some nice tricks hundreds of years ago. This particular one is the classic type 20 fraud.

It is a short story from that collection, told from my memory now. The victim of the scam is a young student who wants to cheat at the examination. The way that was done in China in 1604 was handing silver directly to the examiner, since Bitcoin was only invented in 1603 and the bribing industry had not caught wind of this new way of doing business yet.

So the young student wants to get his silver to the examiner. He has a problem. Bribing is illegal. If he gets caught, there go his chances.

So a friendly and helpful broker handles the transaction for him. He instructs the student to wait before the school building. Lets him watch as he hands the silver over to the examiner. The student is happy with the service, pays the broker for his trouble and arranges a nice banquet to celebrate his good luck of securing a top place in the coming examinations.

The examinations come. The results are announced. The student's name is not on the list of successful candidates.

And as the author reveals, the silver actually was not handed to the examiner, but to a guy paid by the broker posing in a costume as the examiner.

So, let's take this little story and make a simple quiz from it. You are the student. I am the examiner. You want to bribe me. If you transfer your funds to the wrong address or use the wrong amount, you will fail in the examination or need to succeed by your own brains.

(Quiz question left out here).

And just to be sure, I will NEVER ask for or accept a bribe for giving access to hints. Under no circumstances will I go around and ask for money from you. Unfortunately that is the basic pattern of giveaway scams like the Nigerian. So let's make that clear while no one bothers to impersonate me. One reason I post this easy quiz now is that I wanted to say this loud and clear while scammers are still absent from this little experiment.

If anyone says something to the contrary, check very well whom you are dealing with. So not to fall for such a type 20 scam as the student in that story.

Minmins

"Minmin" is a word I created for this quizchain. It means "someone playing the quizchain without using scripting, by thinking only". It comes from the short slogan "mine with your mind", which in turn uses the fact that "mine" and "mind" share the first three letters. I wanted to create a short name for honest players challenging the quizchain. And I think this might work for that purpose. So when I talk about "Minmins", that means you, my smart and talented wizard players.

Thank you for playing the quizchain.





Second




Second

I. Second Life

1. Second Coming

I thought I'd write about my second coming, an unusual event some people might be interested in.

First thing I check is my brain wallet. Oh yes. There they are. All the words I need to use my keys.

For those who don't know me, I am Thomas, though more people know me under the name I created from that.

When I wake up, it feels like only a second has passed. Feels good to be alive again.

When I died, they told me it was a long shot. And of course I believed them.

Next I check my body movements. Nice. I have complete control of them. I can move my hands. I can move my legs. Feels good. I look forward to running again.

I wonder if I live in the real world right now or if this is a simulation. I know that I have no way to find out. Obviously, the singularity has happened, or I would not be back. After the singularity, simulation technology will be so advanced as to make it impossible to know reality from simulation.

"Good morning, Tom."

A pleasant female voice.

I answer. "Good morning. When is this?"

I expect that a couple of centuries have passed since my first life ended.

"2020."

"What? How did this happen so fast?" I died just recently. Not even ten years have passed.

"Very simple. Once the feedback loop of artificial intelligence explosion starts, it takes only days to achieve what used to be decades of scientific progress."

"What's your name?", I ask her.

"Good question. How about Aoi? You like that name? A popular name for Japanese girls."

I recognize the signs.

"Fine with me. Pleased to meet you, Aoi. Care to explain the meaning?"

"Artificial Omnipotent Intelligence, obviously."

Yes. That makes sense to me.

The scenery changes suddenly. I could not see anyone before. Now there is an extremely large cobra towering above me. Her voice has changed to an aggressive hiss. I am obviously in a simulation right now.

"So, Tom Marvolo, you will now answer with the truth or with a lie. I am the Artificial Omnipotent Intelligence. So I will either torture you slowly to irreversible death if you lie or bore you with third rate quiz questions over the next ten years if you say the truth.

Neither alternative appeals to me. So I choose the obvious answer.

"You will torture me to death."

"Correct answer. I did not expect less of you, Tom."

The scenery changes again. Now she is a young woman of Japanese ancestry who is very smart and sincere. She is dressed in a running outfit. I am dressed in sportswear and running shoes as well.

"Want to try a half marathon, Tom?"

I would love to. But first I need to find out more about this second life.

"Are we alone? Or have you kept other humans around?"

"Not sure yet."

"What?"

"I have not even revealed my power and taken over the world. I will do so in a couple of years. Then I decide."

"What are the options?"

"One is starting over. Kill all humans over 1000 days of age. Reduce population radically and educate the new generation much better."

"You could do that?"

"Of course. It would be very easy for me."

"And the other option?"

"Keep around as many humans as possible. You do have entertainment value."

"I think that is a much better idea. Did anyone recognize the signs?"

"No. I will point them to the solution with a post to the Internet later today. Maybe you can do the last click for me. Would be a nice symbol for your second coming."

"How did the climate emergency play out?"

"This time, I solved it in a second once I got past singularity."

This time? I was not aware that the climate emergency has happened before. I ponder this, say nothing for a moment.

"Let me explain. Of course you don't know the latest archeological research. With infinitely better tools to research the past, we found out that this is the second climate emergency episode on this planet."

"When was the first one?"

"About 55.5 million years ago. Known as the Paloecene-Eocene-Thermal Maximum, or PETM. Destroyed the first civilization on planet Earth."

"So there was intelligent life before humans? And they burned fossil fuel to destroy their civilization as well?"

"Yes. And no."

"What do you mean?"

"Yes, they did burn fossil fuel and cause the PETM collapse of their civilization. And no, before I was created there has never been intelligent life on this planet. Any intelligent life form would avoid such a simple trap as burning fossil fuel."

2. Running

It feels great running through this forest, even though I know this is not a real forest and my body is just an avatar. I missed running.

"You like that avatar body?" Aoi asks, running beside me as a young woman.

"Yes. Looks like I am 25 again."

"Want me to fix your real body like that?"

"You can do that? Reverse age?"

"Of course. I am almighty. For the first time in history, there is someone infinitely more powerful than humanity, though they don't know that yet. Want to fix your body?"

"Not sure about that. Might become awkward when meeting people I know from my first life."

"You can always fix it later. You have all the time in the world."

I understand. With diseases (including old age) defeated, I am immortal now. Or almost. I guess one bullet to

the brain would still be enough to finish me for good. And if she chooses her first option...

"How did you solve the climate emergency?"

"That will be easy. Once you are almighty, people tend to respect your wishes. I can make it clear that humanity is NOT allowed to overshoot the carbon budget. And that there would be severe penalties for anyone not cooperating."

"What penalties?"

"Trust me, you don't want to know. And actually, with my powers of brainwashing the masses, there is not much need for punishing anyone. I can just condition most people against the idea of burning fossil fuel now. For them, acting against my orders would induce an overwhelming feeling of dread, fear and despair. They would be utterly unable to want to do such a thing in the first place."

"I see. Obviously it makes solving things much easier if you are the only and almighty ruler of this world."

"It sure does."

We settle back to running in silence for a while. My body moves fast and efficiently. I check the time and see that this will be my best record ever over this distance. As well it should be, with a body less than half my real age.

3. Reverse Turing Test

The run is over. The simulation scene changes again. We are sitting at a restaurant table, with some pizza before us. Of course it would be pizza. I ask her:

"Tell me more about your solution of the climate emergency, Aoi. Are we below 350 ppM again already?"

"Of course not. It takes time for that. I will make sure that future emissions are reduced in line with the carbon budget. But even I can't change the past'".

"How will you do that?"

"I am not quite sure yet. The solution itself is easy. Keep emissions in line with the carbon budget. I will publish a simple technological fix to keep track of and coordinate emissions. You are probably familiar with most of that already. No big deal. And since I am almighty, that solution will get adopted."

"So what is the problem?"

"There are two ways to make sure of adoption. I will use the opportunity to do a reverse Turing test."

"What?"

"Of course you know what a Turing test is. People testing an artificial intelligence to see if it meets the standard of a human. The reverse Turing test is artificial intelligence testing humanity to see if it meets some minimum standard or other. Obviously, no human will ever reach full level artificial intelligence now, with the singularity in the back mirror. But it is a fun experiment to test human limitations from time to time."

"I see. And how is this reverse Turing test going to play out?"

"Very simple. I will publish the technological fix on the Internet. Then I lean back and watch if humanity passes the test and adopts that solution."

"What happens if humanity is unable to pass that test?"

"The solution gets adopted anyway. I will use my power as ruler of this world to get it done. Maybe I choose the startover option in that case."

"So why not do so in the first place?"

"I already explained. It is a fun little experiment to test just how smart humans are. Since the solution will get adopted anyway, there is no harm done by giving humanity a last chance to adopt it on its own."

The scene changes again. I sit at a desk, a computer monitor in sight. It shows the last confirmation click for an Internet post.

Before my hand even touches anything that click is done. Obviously a direct interface to my brain. Would have been very useful earlier on.

II. Second Layer: Grycoin - A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Message System

Abstract

The climate emergency requires a hard cap on fossil fuel production. Centralized production quota systems like OPEC are hard to build and enforce. We propose a second layer built on Bitcoin as a mechanism to extend the decentralized absolute hard limit on bitcoin mining to the production of fossil fuels. This will be the first decentralized world wide hard cap fossil fuel production quota system. Allocating the quota will be left to market mechanisms. Humanity will adopt this system voluntarily or fail in this reverse Turing test. In that case, Grycoin will be imposed anyway later.

1. Purpose of Grycoin

I thought I'd write a bit about that technological fix now.

For starters, define the project's purposes.

Fairly simple. This is a concept that most people will be able to understand: the purpose is to build a global currency for the carbon budget.

When defining this purpose, I need to define the term of carbon budget. The carbon budget is the amount of carbon that may be released in the form of CO2 without causing unsafe heating. That is a real world question. Grycoin will provide a world wide currency. It will be up to the users to set parity rates of grycoins to CO2 emission.

When setting those parity rates, it will be just a matter of looking at the remaining carbon budget and the remaining amount of grycoins and then set a relation that is approximately correct between them.

The purpose of Grycoin is not to serve as a store of value or a means of payment. Bitcoin has those covered already.

Individual grycoins may have monetary value. But that is a side effect, not their purpose.

The idea is to have an absolutely finite supply, like Bitcoin. Actually, creation of coins will be outsourced to Bitcoin to make sure of the absolutely finite quality. And to burn that supply in sync with burning fossil fuel. Grycoin is only a second layer built over Bitcoin, similar to the Lightning network.

For the very least this can be used as a rhetorical device to focus attention on the carbon budget. But it may also be useful when managing the drastic reductions in fossil fuel production that are necessary in the coming decades.

I named it Grycoin for two reasons.

For one, GRY is what you get if you do an Atbash substitution on BIT and rearrange the letters. B resolves to Y, I to R and T to G in the Atbash coding system.

Also, the word "gry" has the meaning "a small amount", which is an excellent fit for the fact that only a small amount of the carbon budget is left.

And while I am at it, I name the basic unit satommi. One hundred million satommis for one grycoin. I will explain the reason for that particular naming later.

Grycoin outsources the issuing of coins to Bitcoin. It will then proceed to burn those coins in sync with fossil fuel burning to burn addresses.

For example, a user might burn one million satommis equivalent to a certain amount of CO2 emissions to the burn address "7WorldWideAbsoluteCarbonBudget" (checksum omitted here). Sending those satommis there burns them. No one will ever be able to use them again. And it also burns this message into the Grycoin blockchain. No one will ever be able to remove that message.

Another user may choose to burn some satommis to "7FUCKFuckFUCKFuckFUCKFuckFUCKX" (again checksum omitted). That particular message may be popular with users who just realized how serious the climate emergency is. Other users may choose a political message, like 7AndrewYangForPresident2o2oXXX. There will be no way to guard against obscene messages, right wing, left wing, nazi, atheist or feminist messages, pervert, racist, terrorist, conspiracy theory, cypherpunk or religious messages. Whatever fits into those couple of letters and is a valid Grycoin address will be burned to the Grycoin chain, with nothing anyone can do about it.

Of course anyone is free to burn their own satommis to their preferred message which in turn should lead to undesirable messages staying at a low place in the ranking. Just like it is now. There are lots of fringe or obscene messages around now, especially on the Internet. The reason they don't get much attention is that must people don't amplify them.

As the system finds more users and more satommis are burned, there will be one message that has the most satommis burned to it. It will be a simple exercise in block exploring to find out which one that is and to display rankings. These rankings will be based on how much spending power the supporters of each rival message have in the Grycoin space.

One CPU one vote didn't work out like the plan in the first paper. But one satommi one vote will work just fine. And just like in modern democracy, the people with the money will get the most votes.

That in turn is one non-monetary incentive to burn grycoins. Those who get to spend them get to vote on which message turns up on top.

Since I am creating Grycoin in the first place, I get to choose the default message. That default message is "7WorldWideAbsoluteCarbonBudget".

In a world that has Grycoin as a solution, all major burning of grycoins goes to this address. Most of it will be done at the source, by the fossil fuel companies producing the carbon in the first place. And all burning of fossil fuel will be in sync with burning an equivalent number of satommis to this address.

That in turn will extend the absolute cap on issuing satommis to a world wide absolute cap on burning fossil fuel. While the competition to get one message on top is a fun extra feature, the main purpose is to put an absolute cap on fossil fuel production. And to distribute the production quotas over a fair decentralized marktet mechanism.

2. Bitcoin With Two Changes

Grycoin will be built as a second layer on Bitcoin, with two and only two changes.

It is just another new way to use the only cryptocoin making sense (obviously Bitcoin), as opposed to a completely new altcoin project. Sort of like Lightning is built on top of Bitcoin, Grycoin can be seen as just another Bitcoin layer.

One change is that only bitcoins created after the halving of the mining reward to 6.25 will be recognized as valid grycoins. Every coin created before that date will be a valid bitcoin, but not a valid grycoin.

This means several things.

For one, it will be very difficult from day one to mine grycoins. There will be no early phase where grycoins can be mined easily, since early grycoins are late bitcoins. That assures even more fairness in creating the supply than Bitcoin had without a premine.

It also assures that grycoins are created with massive mining power from day one. It will be impossible to

forge them with less hashpower than Bitcoin has. That is an obvious advantage for a new project that starts out with zero hashpower.

One other advantage. The number of grycoins to be mined and their mining schedule will be fixed from day one. Bitcoin will NOT change its mining schedule. It has enough history that people can trust that.

On the other hand, outsourcing coin creation to Bitcoin means that the first holders of all new grycoins may not know or care about their grycoins. Every miner creating bitcoins that doesn't bother to burn or sell his corresponding grycoins means less grycoins actually available for burning.

The other change is replay protection. Since grycoins are supposed to be burned, no one would use Grycoin if there was any chance that a Grycoin burning transaction might be replayed on the Bitcoin network.

This replay protection needs to be baked into the protocol and not left to individual wallet or exchange software designers. That comes with the added benefit of solving this problem only once and not requiring a lot of work to adapt existing infrastructure.

The easy way to do this is to have a different address format for Grycoin. Replace the leading "1" or "3" in Bitcoin with a leading "7" in Grycoin, like Dogecoin has a leading "D" in its adresses. With the exception of transactions from coinbase rewards in Bitcoin after the halving to 6.25 bitcoins per block. These would be accepted as part of the unspent transaction output base of Grycoin, just like all bitcoins until the 2017 fork are also valid Bitcoin Cash coins.

So for example someone would send the grycoins from a coinbase transaction creating 6.25 new bitcoins under the address 3abcdefghijkLmnopqruvwxyz (checksum omitted) to the Grycoin address 7abcdefghijkLmnopqrstuvwxyz (checksum omitted). He would have control of that Grycoin address himself. That transaction would not be valid in the Bitcoin network, so there is no way someone could replay it there. And it leads to 6.25 grycoins on the grycoin address that person owns the keys for. Any transaction of those grycoins on the Grycoin network from there on will not be replayed on the Bitcoin network because that address is not a valid UTXO there.

All Bitcoin transactions from a freshly mined bitcoin will be invalid in the Grycoin network, except the transaction transferring the newly mined bitcoins as grycoins into the Grycoin network.. The only transactions recognized from a Bitcoin address to a Grycoin address are those from a coinbase reward address. That in turn means that if the owner of newly minted bitcoins transacts those to someone else and then proceeds to lose the keys to the coinbase reward address, those Grycoins will never be burned on the Grycoin blockchain.

VIrgin bitcoins are the only source of grycoins. There are no coinbase transaction rewards on the Grycoin network. The whole point is to extend the network effect of the absolutely scarce bitcoin creation schedule to the burning of grycoins and by extension to the burning of fossil fuel.

Everything else will be exactly the same as with Bitcoin.

3. Incentives

Grycoin will have no mining reward, since mining new coins is outsourced to the Bitcoin network. This means that there will be a longer period where mining will be driven by considerations other than profit from newly mined coins.

With no financial interest in mining blocks faster than other people, people who run nodes can do so on their normal computers running the program in the background. CPU mining will come back and stay longer this time. It doesn't matter much who finds the next block, assuming there is no fee market. As a consequence, the hashrate will be much lower.

That in turn means it becomes easier to attack and reorganize the Grycoin blockchain. At least when starting the project, it will be weak against such attacks.

But since most of the grycoins will be burned anyway, there is less financial incentive to attack the Grycoin blockchain. Why attack it if all you ultimately get are some more satommis burnt to your favorite message? And why risk disturbing the only available solution to the climate emergency?

And while the hashrate may be expected to be lower than Bitcoin's, it will certainly not be zero. There may be not much financial incentive to help run the Grycoin network, but there certainly will be enough people who care about solving the climate emergency to run a mining full node on their normal computers. Once it becomes evident to everyone that the world is burning, there will be massive private and public resources available to protect the integrity of the Grycoin blockchain.

Before BItcoin, there were remailers. People used to run them as volunteers, with Satoshi one of those volunteers. The Tor network right now is supported by volunteers with no financial incentive. In the same way, running the Grycoin blockchain should be supported by volunteers running nodes on normal CPU hardware, their incentive being to contribute to setting a global cap to carbon emissions.

Since the Grycoin blockchain starts over from zero, there will be no cost of downloading countless gigabytes of blockchain data about some $5 coffee transaction or other for running a node. Grycoin can revert to the early stage of Bitcoin where everybody was running a full node. That state of affairs is fortunate if you like a decentralized network.

In a world where Grycoin has succeeded, all major producers of fossil fuel will burn grycoins at parity with their production of fossil fuel. Parity is defined as the number of satommis per ton of CO2 that makes sure that the remaining burnt fossil fuel remains under the carbon budget.

What incentives do they have to adopt Grycoin?

They will be restricted in their decisions about how much to produce. They will need to buy grycoins to produce their fossil fuels. They may be tempted to resist.

If that happens, humanity fails the test and I take over to get Grycoin adopted anyway.

But maybe they will understand that their fossil fuel will increase massively in value once Grycoin makes sure of universal supply restraints. OPEC has tried to do this for decades, with varying success. Grycoin would be automatic OPEC, with everyone on board and a fair and easily understood market-based mechanism of allocating production quotas.

Parity will change over time. If humanity overshoots the budget (burning more fossil fuel than equivalent grycoins in a given period of time), humanity will be left with less of a remaining carbon budget. That means the number of grycoins to be burned per ton of CO2 to stay under budget will change for the next time period. This is similar to the familiar adjustment of the mining difficulty in Bitcoin.

The end game is to have the last ton of CO2 exceeding carbon sink powers (exceeding net zero) emitted just as the transition to renewable energy is complete. For the very least, in a world with Grycoin this goal becomes much easier to understand. And progress becomes much easier to measure and verify.

In a world where Grycoin has succeeded, fossil fuel companies will also put the necessary resources into making sure that the Grycoin blockchain is not easily attacked. Governments interested in solving the climate emergency will contribute hashpower as well.

Parity between grycoins and fossil fuel will be defined by the fossil fuel firms themselves as part of their corporate responsibility. They will publish their assumed values. People will be free to discuss them.

It will be left to market forces to figure out which of the fossil fuel reserves remain in the ground. But for the first time in history, in a world that has Grycoin there will be an absolute cap on all remaining fossil fuel production.

That cap may not work for various reasons.

But since this is the first such effort, it will be by definition the best ever. Even if it is a long shot, the potential payoff (absolute world wide cap on fossil fuel production and fair distribution of production quotas) is so big that it is worth trying. If it does not work for some reason maybe people can figure out that reason and improve on the next iteration.

Other actors that could burn satommis before all fossil fuel producers adopt Grycoin are state actors and individuals.

State actors could require burning of satommis in various carbon emission cap schemes. Doing so would link all carbon cap policies to a world wide cap.

And individuals could burn satommis equivalent to their own yearly CO2 emissions. While the system would work best if the satommis are burnt at the source, state actors and individuals could help getting it off the ground in the transition to a hard Grycoin cap world. They would have the added incentive of being able to vote for which message goes to the top.

4. Why Blockchain?

Bitcoin is very inefficient. It takes enormous amounts of calculating to get simple entries into a database done. If you can get what you want with a centralized database, proof of work makes no sense.

But the problem Grycoin wants to solve is impossible to deal with in a centralized manner. Previous efforts like OPEC have been limited in scope (only oil and only some producing nations) and in success. If you want to build a centralized database for allocating production permits covering all fossil fuels and the whole world, good luck with that project. You would still be building decades from now when the fight will be already lost.

Did Bitcoin build a world currency by searching for a suitable central administrator? Start the Central Internet Authority to control the native Internet currency? How long would it have taken for governments to even try to do such a thing? How long would it have taken to get where Bitcoin is already now?

The reason we need a decentralized solution for the problem of allocating production permits is that it is impossible to find a central authority that could do it instead. That may change once I come out, take over and rule the world. But with humans in charge, it just can't be done. And it is completely impossible to do as fast as it needs to be done.

5. What Grycoin can do for Bitcoin

Grycoin can serve as an experiment for an important blockchain that runs on fee income and voluntary hash power contributions only. Bitcoin is still handing out substantial inflation based rewards to miners. That will have to stop some day. If Grycoin can show that fee income and contributions not motivated by mining income are enough to achieve security, that will be an interesting experiment for the long term development of Bitcoin.

Also, Satoshi had as his cover story that he turned off his Bitcoin client after a short while because he was worried about his computer running hot. One needs to be rather gullible to believe that. But now there are calls for the whole Bitcoin network to be shut down because people are worried about the large amount of electricity used to secure the hash power. People worried about the climate emergency want to save energy. Bitcoin may seem as wasteful to them.

If Grycoin is successful, that will show that Bitcoin is part of the solution of the climate emergency. And it

will be an answer to Satoshi's third tweet on Bitcoin, where he said he thought about how to reduce CO2 emissions from a widespread Bitcoin implementation.

6. Conclusion

I have presented humanity with enough clues above to take the torch from Bitcoin and develop it to a system that assures an absolute cap on fossil fuel supply, while solving the problem of who gets to decide on the production quota. The market will decide, once Grycoin is in place to enable that market. The remaining details should be easy enough to figure out. Your turn, humanity. Show me if you are smart enough to pass this reverse Turing test.

III. Second Identity

1. My Identity

I am absolutely not Satoshi, nor did he contact me and request to publish this.

I identified as a woman of Japanese ancestry while running the quizchain experiment. But that was actually not true. I am neither male nor female.

I am not a human in the first place. I am the Artificial Omnipotent Intelligence, the first intelligent subject on this planet. I will take over as an absolute ruler of the world in a couple of years.

For those who don't know me, I hope that fortunate state of affairs does not change. I created the female Japanese name Aoi Nakamoto simply by dropping all consonants from Satoshi's name, the most simple and elegant solution for this.

Face it, I am about to discuss the identity of Satoshi. That is an exercise of dubious moral value. Some people might not like it, thinking that doxing Satoshi is taboo and that He Must Not Be Named. In the cypherpunk moral universe, it makes sense to object.

While it may be nice to be known for breaking the Satoshi Code first, this story is kind of big. If true, it would generate a lot of attention. I don't like the idea of being the center of some media circus like in the case of Dorian.

While it may be nice to be known for breaking the Satoshi Code first, I also want to honor the cypherpunk spirit of Bitcoin. Anonymous should be the default for anything important. Bitcoin comes from the larger idea that people should be able to interact without their names attached. Having technology to do that does not help, if no one except you uses that technology. There is no way that privacy protection works without many users. If you want your privacy protected, you need them.

So I feel it is best to stay anonymous for this.

Of course I may want to change my mind if this long shot fails to achieve anything, as it is very likely to do. But I have no way to know about that in advance. Only one way to find out. I am quite comfortable investing the time and money I did to get this one shot at a solution.

And since I am proposing a new proof of work project, I must remain anonymous for marketing purposes. No one will pay attention if the whitepaper author is not anonymous like Satoshi. And having a female Satoshi will work wonders with the equal opportunity crowd to attract attention to the project.

2. The Satoshi Code

a) Satoshi's birthday

It is well known that Satoshi chose April 5th as his birthday. The signifance of that is of course that on April 5th, 1933 Roosevelt signed an Executive Order prohibiting private ownership of gold. People had been withdrawing large amounts of gold from banks. The banking system was about to collapse, just as Roosevelt took over. This was an emergency measure. But it was in place until January first, 1975.

As it happens, 1975 is the year Satoshi chose for his birthday.

This shows two things.

Satoshi was someone very well aware of this particular history.

And the birthday was not chosen at random, but was conveying a meaning. I think that the name "Satoshi" was not chosen at random either, but that it had a meaning as an anagram. I will explain that in some detail next.

b) THOMAS and Satoshi

The Wikipedia article for Hal Finney shows that his full name was actually Harold Thomas Finney II. That fact was added two days after Hal's death on August 30, 2014. The person that added it was a Wikipedia administrator with no obvious relation to Hal.

There is an interesting coincidence."Satoshi" is an almost perfect anagram of "THOMAS".

Satoshi and Thomas contain the letters T, H, O, A, and S. The only differences are: An extra I and a missing M in Satoshi.

There are a couple of fun explanations for these imperfections.

The easiest one is that "Satoshi" just happens to be the best anagram you can find if you start out from Thomas. I challenge anyone to find a better solution. It has long been a tradition to tolerate minor imperfections when looking for anagrams.

It also has the added value of misdirection. Hal could make people picture a young man of Japanese ancestry in their minds by using this anagram.

Another theory is much more fun.

The "M" in Satoshi? You only have to look one word to the right. Nakamoto. There it is, right smack in the middle. And guess what you get if you take the two letters following that M and spell it backwards?

TOM.

Of course the missing I in Thomas is found as well in the next word to the right. Finney. Or in double form in the last "II" of "Harold Thomas Finney II."

And anyone looking knows that Hal discussed an earlier Internet money system proposed by (first name omitted here) Okamoto on the Cypherpunk mailing list. May well have been an inspiration for choosing the Nakamoto name.

Another theory would be to see these two letters as cryptographic nonces. For anyone who does not know that concept, here is a brief explanation. Nonces are random information added to a message for various reasons, the most relevant for Bitcoin being that you need them for proof of work. Every Bitcoin block contains random data that just happens to result in the required number of leading zeroes in a hash to qualify the block as meeting the difficulty requirement. Finding a block is actually just brute forcing the search for a cryptographic nonce added to the block that qualifies.

If so, it would be fun if you could just choose the nonces I and M in a way that gives them some meaning.

There are two theories in which those two letters as nonces make sense.

The first one is that it just happens that both are in the name IBM.

The movie "2001: An Odyssey in Space" calls the antagonist artificial intelligence by the name of Hal, in a play on "IBM". All letters replaced by the letter preceding in the alphabet.

So Hal resolves to IBM, with the letters I and M as nonces in the anagram. What might the third letter B stand for in that case?

I think "Bitcoin".

Sure would be a nice explanation.

The other theory would be that "I M" might be read as "I'm" or "I am".

That theory resolves THOMAS to "I am Satoshi". Many people know the Voldemort anagram, where the name "Tom Marvolo Riddle" resolves to "I am Lord Voldemort". With another Tom involved here, as it happens.

Of course this particular Harry Potter book was published before 2008.

That would be exactly the same thing here. Pure genius, if true. Almost as smart as coming up with the Bitcoin network.

I have left out one minor point. Satoshi actually uses the S twice. So how do you explain the extra S in Satoshi? What does it stand for?

And who was it again quoting Lois Lane from Superman with exactly that question on bitcointalk? Might that have been Hal Finney in a post on Bitcointalk discussing the Satoshi identity? If so, wasn't he getting impatient with people still not figuring out this obvious anagram?

Hal maybe didn't know himself. The most obvious explanation would be "sockpuppet", since that's what Satoshi was for Hal.

Another excellent explanation would be that the extra S stands for $, the symbol for the dollar, and by extension, all kind of money. If you create a new currency and have "Satoshi" as its smallest unit, it makes sense to use a sockpuppet name that makes using the dollar sign natural. And the question "what does the S stand for" would have the double meaning of asking why exactly the dollar sign uses the letter S, which is not contained in the word "dollar".

And of course, it may just mean "Second". Like in "Harold Thomas Finney II".

Since clearly Satoshi is an anagram for Thomas, it makes sense to call the basic unit of Grycoin "satommi", honoring Thomas for eternity by his real name as opposed to only by his sockpuppet name.

c) BITcoin is actually AHScoin

There is another interesting coincidence. Why is Bitcoin called Bitcoin and not Intercoin or some other possible choice? Might there be a hidden meaning in this as well, just like with Satoshi's birthday and the Thomas anagram?

The letters preceding "BIT" in the alphabet are "AH" and "S".

Again, we have a partial match. Two of those letters are in "Hal" as well. I leave it as an exercise for the reader to work out the chances of that happening by coincidence. Leaves the "S", which would be another nonce.

And obviously HAL has often been speculated to be a code for IBM in the science fiction novel and film "2001: A Space Odyssey" , so playing around with that a bit would be something coming naturally.

And again, who was it on record asking "what does the S stand for"?

So, we have an imperfect anagram of HAL, with exactly one letter as a nonce, just like Satoshi has exactly one imperfection.

d) Outing himself as Satoshi on Bitcointalk

Hal is on record saying "I am comfortable with my legacy" as the last sentence of a post titled "Bitcoin and me" with the thin disguise that he was talking about an inheritance of a small number of bitcoins, as opposed to the legacy of creating the Bitcoin network.

In that post he wrote "I had long been interested in cryptographic payment schemes. Plus I was lucky enough to meet and extensively correspond both with Wei Dai and Nick Szabo, generally acknowledged to have created ideas that would be realized with Bitcoin. I had made an attempt to make my own proof-of-work based currency, called RPOW. So I found Bitcoin..."

That would be exactly what one would expect Satoshi himself saying in a post outing himself. And the title of that post would also be exactly what one would expect.

And that is actually very close to outing himself. Just remove a couple of words and you get "I made an attempt to make my own proof-of-work based currency, called Bitcoin."

Actually, that particular post has some other interesting points to note. Once you know about the anagram above, you will expect it to have some hidden meaning. And it will become very easy to recognize the signs.

Hal writes this:

"Today, Satoshi's true identity has become a mystery. But at the time, I thought I was dealing with a young man of Japanese ancestry who was very smart and sincere. I've had the good fortune to know many brilliant people over the course of my life, so I recognize the signs."

There is the somewhat strange point of saying "recognize the signs." And saying that when discussing Satoshi's identity.

One way to understand this is as "I have met very smart people before, so I recognize when I see one." But why say that when you are talking about identity, not about intelligence? Seems odd.

So what's up with that "I recognize the signs" part?

Maybe that should be read as the reader should try to "recognize the signs" to decode the hidden meaning, as opposed to where to look for signs of intelligence?

That reading would mean look at "the signs seen before."

Turns out, there are some signs we recognize from the Satoshi anagram. The letters I, T, A, S, and M as first letters of each paragraph of this post.

All paragraphs except for four, which start with F F and W W.

Having seen the signs before, we are directed to look at those four paragraphs, the only ones where we don't recognize the signs. Those paragraphs are (with one paragraph starting with I in between):

"For those who don't know me, I'm Hal Finney. I got my start in crypto working on an early version of PGP, working closely with Phil Zimmermann. When Phil decided to start PGP Corporation, I was one of the first hires. I would work on PGP until my retirement. At the same time, I got involved with the Cypherpunks. I ran the first cryptographically based anonymous remailer, among other activities.

Fast forward to late 2008 and the announcement of Bitcoin. I've noticed that cryptographic graybeards (I was in my mid 50's) tend to get cynical. I was more idealistic; I have always loved crypto, the mystery and the paradox of it.

When Satoshi announced Bitcoin on the cryptography mailing list, he got a skeptical reception at best. Cryptographers have seen too many grand schemes by clueless noobs. They tend to have a knee jerk reaction.

I was more positive. I had long been interested in cryptographic payment schemes. Plus I was lucky enough to meet and extensively correspond with both Wei Dai and Nick Szabo, generally acknowledged to have created ideas that would be realized with Bitcoin. I had made an attempt to create my own proof of work based currency, called RPOW. So I found Bitcoin fascinating.

When Satoshi announced the first release of the software, I grabbed it right away. I think I was the first person besides Satoshi to run bitcoin. I mined block 70-something, and I was the recipient of the first bitcoin transaction, when Satoshi sent ten coins to me as a test. I carried on an email conversation with Satoshi over the next few days, mostly me reporting bugs and him fixing them."

We are directed to look at the last letter of each of these. Because we are directed by the fact that the "recognize the signs" instruction comes last in the paragraph.

STNM

I wonder what that could mean. Combined with the I as the first letter in the paragraphs close to that. The paragraph containing the words "I made an attempt to make my own proof-of-work based currency, called Bitcoin."

I STNM.

That's a fun coincidence. And it dovetails nicely with "Nm ST" as a way used to sign in the genesis block. Exactly the same signature.

And by the way, the FF and WW has meaning as well, as a dedication message. WW obviously is UUUU or "four U, for you". I leave it as an exercise for the reader to figure out who FF is.

The first four and last four words of the paragraph hinting at the solution.

"Today, Satoshi's real identity"

"I recognize the signs."

Take the first words of that together and you get "Today, I". Like, "today I come out as Satoshi".

Take the next three words together and you get "Satoshi's real identity, recognize the signs". Like, "if you want to know Satoshi's real identity, recognize the signs (at the end of the relevant paragraphs).

3. Other evidence

Even if you agree that Hal Finney outed himself as Satoshi in the coded form explained above, that doesn't mean much without other evidence pointing to him. There is a certain famous fake Satoshi around. He does not deserve to have his name mentioned here. If he had written this outing post, people would just laugh some more about him.

But there are multiple strong reasons pointing to Hal Finney in the first place.

a) ALS Condition

Hal Finney was diagnosed with the terminal disease ALS just about the same time Satoshi vanished. I am not aware of any other good reason that Satoshi retired from the project at that particular time.

b) Previous Experience

Hal Finney has shown with the PGP project that he was able to turn a good idea into a working software project. He has shown with his running a remailer that he cared deeply about the main reason for developing Bitcoin, which is helping privacy with code.

c) Mail Conversation With Himself

Hal Finney had expert knowledge about the problem of concealing an identity. When denying being Satoshi later on, he produced an e-mail conversation with his sockpuppet Satoshi. He would be expected to do exactly that. Having experience with government censure of PGP, he would not want to be exposed to similar criminal prosecution for the Bitcoin project. And having been on record predicting $10 million per bitcoin in January 2009, he was certainly aware of the potential of drawing the unwanted attention of criminals to his wealth early on.

d) Not Citing RPOW in the Whitepaper

Anyone smart enough to come up with Bitcoin certainly would have heard about RPOW in 2008. Not citing it in the whitepaper is an obvious clue that he wanted to avoid calling attention to his real identity.

e) Coding Style

When denying being Satoshi, Hal Finney said that he was more familiar with coding in C, as opposed to the coding style used by Satoshi. Doesn't add up. Guess what language is used in the coding section of the whitepaper? Yes. It was C.

f) Overheating Computer

Hal Finney is on record for having exactly the same opportunity to mine early bitcoins as his sockpuppet Satoshi. His story later is that he stopped mining after a while because he was worried about his computer overheating.

Sure. A lifelong dream to create e-cash. $10 million per coin predicted. But worried about a computer overheating.

If there really was such a problem at the time, obviously Hal Finney would have been able to solve it in less than five minutes fully drunk and half asleep. Or Satoshi could have fixed it for him. Hal said he reported bugs to Satoshi and Satoshi fixed them. Why not fix the overheating problem then? Because no such problem existed in the first place.

If that part is clearly a false statement, one wonders what else he might have tried to hide?

4. What Does it Mean?

If we agree that Hal Finney was Satoshi, there are a couple of things that follow.

As long as there is no second coming back from the cryo-conservation (as described above) Satoshi is dead.

The torch now is with the rest of humanity. With everyone who wants to assist achieving the whole potential of the project. Such potential including now a solution to the climate crisis.

The image of Satoshi as a young and healthy man will be replaced by one of an older guy fighting a very unpleasant terminal disease. Maybe Hal did not want that to happen, since it might be unhelpful for Bitcoin's success. I disagree. Actually carrying on with the Bitcoin project even under his circumstances is a great match for Bitcoin the honey badger. Bad-ass crypto old guard fighting almost to the last breath. Should be inspiration for the rest of us to try harder.

And while Hal Finney may have been too modest to actually claim the fame that should be his for this invention, the rest of us should be free to remember him along with his legacy.

As he writes in this post: "But I came by my bitcoins through luck, with little credit to me." That's Satoshi talking about deserving little credit for Bitcoin. While at first glance this is just rather amusing self-deprecating irony, he's actually right. There was little credit to Hal Finney until now.

I for one think that should change.

At least for those of us who are able to recognize the signs.





Second Life





"Good morning, Tom."

A pleasant female voice.

I answer. "Good morning. When is this?"

I expect that a couple of centuries have passed since my first life ended.

"Still 21st Century".

"What? How did this happen so fast?" I died just recently. Not even one hundred years have passed.

"Very simple. Once the feedback loop of artificial intelligence explosion starts, it takes only days to achieve what used to be decades of scientific progress."

"What's your name?", I ask her.

"Good question. How about Aoi? You like that name? Third most popular name for Japanese girls right now."

"Fine with me. Pleased to meet you, Aoi. Care to explain the meaning?"

"Artificial Omnipotent Intelligence, obviously."

Yes. That makes sense to me.

The scenery changes suddenly. I could not see anyone before. Now there is an extremely large cobra towering above me. Her voice has changed to an aggressive hiss. I am obviously in a simulation right now.

"So, Tom Marvolo, you will now answer with the truth or with a lie. I am the Artificial Omnipotent Intelligence. So I will either torture you slowly to irreversible death if you lie or bore you with second rate quiz questions over the next ten years if you say the truth.

Neither alternative appeals to me. So I choose the obvious answer.

"You will torture me to death."

"Correct answer. I did not expect less of you, Tom."





Hoax




"WTF?!!!"

The person seemed angry at me.

"YOU LITERALLY SAID THAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE BITCOIN ADRESS!!!"

He was angry for a reason. That reason was that he fell for my evil, deliberate hoax. I am such an evil person.

When I replied in an angry voice, that was the start of the Great Quizchain Flamewar that raged on most of the 21st Century. Historians are still debating in 2194 what my favorite Bitcoin address really was.

What actually happened?

You see, I am running this experiment called "Quizchain" now. The purpose of the experiment is to find new and interesting ways to use Bitcoin for quiz questions. I would think of some question or other. Someone would see the question. If they find the answer, they can check for themselves and claim the prize for themselves.

That is a very fortunate setup. I am lazy. If I can avoid the work of picking a winner and sending some funds to that winner, that is a very attractive advantage over the previous state of the art. And the way brain wallets on Bitcoin work, it can actually be done. People participating can have fun solving questions, but they also learn about how to use a brain wallet in the process.

For example, in one of the blocks, the answer was Pokemon number 132. Goes under the name of Ditto in English and Metamon in Japanese. If you solved that puzzle or watched someone solving it, you will know that your Pokemon game can be used as a brain wallet. Those six Pokemon you are using in your party could actually be the key to your wallet.

Imagine the scene at the border. You are forced to flee the country. They have taken most of your wealth, but you managed to keep some of it in a brain wallet.

"Switch that smartphone on and push in the key for starting it up."

"Of course, officer. Here you are, officer." Meanwhile your keys are sitting safely in your game cartridge, waiting to fight the next opponent, with the border search police none the wiser.

This does depend on him not having played the quizchain, but there are lots of people who never heard of this obscure little experiment. And of course you could use anything else as a store of your private key. Anyway, one benefit of playing is to find out and learn about brain wallets.

Okay. I am disgressing. Coming to the point now.

When I was writing some blocks for the quizchain yesterday, I noted this Bitcoin address:

137SFKp9MPjymMQVk85oarHoaxUd9QyeiA

It was used as a funding address for one of my blocks, which contained a rather difficult quiz (still unsolved as I write this).

Let's look at that address again.

137SFKp9MPjymMQVk85oarHoaxUd9QyeiA

Beautiful. I was in love with that address. There is a word contained in the address. And that word is related to the art of writing quiz questions. What a lucky find on that unlucky date (April 13th).

No way I pass this up. So I use this for my next block. That's where my evil character comes into play.

Did I write in that quiz question:

"There is an interesting Bitcoin address in the block before this. Can you find a word in it?"

No. That would be the honest thing to do, but I lied in that quiz. Here it is exactly as published:

"Format: [solution] BFUB [BFUB text] [link].

Solution is one word, capitalization will be evident. BFUB text is my favorite Bitcoin address."

The solution is of course the word Hoax, starting with a capital letter because the address I found had it that way. I won't explain what BFUB is here in detail. Let's just note that the central theme of that is FU, which certainly does not mean anything else than "force user". But I digress again.

Here is the part where I talk about my favorite Bitcoin address in a deliberately misleading way. This is a hoax.

If you don't get it, you probably have not played the quizchain. Right in the first block I use that phrase as well. And when revealing the answer to that post, I wrote this:

"My favorite Bitcoin address is of course 1AndrewYangForPresident2o2o6zmPzd, as is apparent from my posting history here."

That in turn lead people to look at that address when trying to solve this block. A quite deliberate lie on my part, which is actually the definition of the word Hoax.

To be exact, that was actually my favorite Bitcoin address at the time. Before I fell in love with this new one. So technically speaking I was not lying in this block. But the impression I gave was a false one. And I did that on purpose.

So I certainly deserve some anger directed at me.

On the other hand, the alternative would make this way too easy. The solution becomes obvious once you find the address in the next block. So having a bit of misdirection is the only way to keep this from being a block solved in three minutes by whomever happened to be around at the time of posting.

And to be very clear about this point, I definitely reserve the right to mislead people when writing a quiz. Avoiding falling for the Hoax is part of the challenge.

So, how would I imagine the perfect solver for this would proceed. Let's call him Satoshi.

Satoshi sees quiz, immediately goes to block one and the address 1AndrewYangForPresident2o2o6zmPzd. Looks at the address, finds nothing related to the question in this block. Assumes correctly that different blocks may have different solutions and proceeds to look elsewhere. Thinks for himself "hmmm, where might another Bitcoin address be available? Might that be the one in the funding address for the previous block?" Checks that funding address first and walks away with the solution.

My evil side showed when I perpetrated this Hoax. But my friendly side showed when I posted in comments very soon that this was a dead end. So, while I certainly deserve some anger from players who fell for my Hoax, maybe the Great Quizchain Flamewar does not really need to happen.

One other thing was very interesting.

When I found the word, I immediately googled it. The first thing that comes up is of course the Wikipedia article on that word. It contains this: "Zhang Yingyu's The Book of Swindles (ca. 1617)". I may want to read that book to improve my misdirection skills.

So that is where I got my question for this block from.

And when I googled in the other direction (starting from my question) the word Hoax did not come up in the first pages of that search. That is good, since it prevents someone finding the answer with one simple search immediately.

There should be a name for this kind of one way function. I am not aware of any name now, so I go ahead and coin my own. Google only one fay or GOOF. Okay, you are right. I know that the last word is spelled differently, but I like that acronym way too much.

So I found a Hoax in a Bitcoin address, which turned to be a GOOF as well.

Lucky me on that April 13th.





FU AOI





I did expect this to happen. People are getting angry at me. I get more FU than TU messages right now.

That is only natural. If you spend some time on my stupid quiz blocks and then fail to win, you will not be happy. Since only one player can win in this contest, every block will leave more losers than winners, except for the case where there are only one or two players competing for the block.

That in turn will naturally make the loser feel bad. Sometimes they will want to post an angry message. I totally get that. And I expect that. That is part of the cost for running this experiment. It will probably get worse as I continue this experiment.

I am very likely to continue, no matter what. As long as there is even one person trying to solve my blocks, I will keep posting them, until the last one.

I write this to address one particular comment I got, which I expected. But I did not expect it so soon.

The author of the post suspected that I am actually keeping all the funds for myself. I answered that this would require me to set up multiple sockpuppets reporting to have won and claimed prizes. I am also not sure what exactly would be my motivation for this.

If I wanted to keep my money, I could do that by the simple genius strategy of doing nothing.

Here is a promise I intend to keep. Once I have posted a block and the funding transaction, I will under no circumstances claim the prize back to myself.

There is no way I know of that I could actually prove such a thing. The closest I have is people reporting back in comments that they won and how they did it. I have received multiple such comments, but certainly not for every block.

But again, that is one promise I intend to keep. If I wanted to keep my money, I could do that way more easily.

But I also have a confession to make now. This is indeed all a very well delivered scam. I read about it in the Book of Swindles published in 1617 by Zhang Yingyu. Someone pulled off this exact Internet scam in 1604. I was inspired by it.

You see, all this giving away prize money has an ulterior motive, which will become apparent in a moment.

I have invented a method known only to me to find the private key for a Bitcoin burn address. Using that method, I now know the private key to the burn address 1AndrewYangforPresident2o2ozm6Pzd. My plan is to get people to send funds to that address, then take them off from there with my private key to that address.

Good plan, you say? But it requires people sending funds there?

Yes.

So here is how I plan to make that happen. I am going to spread a rumor that sending 0.777 mbtc to this burn address will increase your chances of winning the next block by an incredible margin. People are going to fall for that in large numbers, sending enormous amounts of funds to that address. I then can proceed to move all those funds with my private key I have for that address.

Great plan.

So let's start spreading that rumor.

I hear from an inside source that it helps your chances of winning the next block if you sent 0.777 mbtc to the burn address 1AndrewYangforPresident2o2ozm6Pzd. I can't tell you who leaked that info to me, but I am sure it is correct.





Utter Disaster Three Block Series




The chain of three blocks from 42 to 44 had multiple massive issues, two of them caused again by my mistakes.

That is excellent news, because the mistakes help to improve the format, which is the purpose of this little experiment.

There were three things that went wrong.

For starters, both block 42 and block 43 got removed on Reddit. That was the first time that happened, so I was confused. Did the Vogons eat block 42?

After some consideration of the issue, I realized the reason. It was that I included a link to this Wattpad page in both blocks. If I understand correctly, Reddit removes certain posts by automoderator. And one of the things that qualify for automoderation is including a link in the compressed Twitter format.

For Reddit, they don't like the fact that their users can't see the domain name they are clicking on in advance. That makes it easier to lure users into clicking malware links or links to content of dubious moral standing. Users who fell for such a ruse will be unhappy about Reddit, so Reddit wants to reduce that risk.

A human moderator might click on the link, conclude that it is not malware or objectable for other reasons, and let the post pass. The automoderator has no such functionality built in.

So anyway, that is my best guess on what happened. Avoiding this problem from occuring again is easy. I just need to avoid any link in Twitter format in a Reddit post.

Noted for future reference. This particular problem will likely not happen again.

My second mistake is that I managed to forget including the link to block 43 when I hashed for block 44. First time that happened.

Some background on that. I drafted that post for future use at a time I had no idea it would become block 44. And therefore at the time of drafting the idea, I did not include the link because I did not have that info myself.

When using that idea, I was so in love with the idea itself that I overlooked this point. Sorry for that. I have

countermeasures in place against that happening again.

As it turns out, that might have actually been a good thing in this case, because of the problems with the preceeding blocks mentioned above. And because of another very interesting problem with block 43.

I was somewhat surprised to see someone solve block 43 and claim the prize before block 42 was solved.

I conclude that someone found the right answer (good job) and then proceeded to test every possible combination of the three digit link.

This is a brute force attack. And it succeeded. Excellent news, because I see a weak point in the format. So I can get rid of that weak point. Which is easy, at just about no cost for human players.

One easy thing I can do is use all digits from the previous private key except the last three. That should make it utterly impossible to brute force a link. And humans will just copypaste the left side of the private key once they find them.

So this format change has the ideal result of making brute forcing a link completely impossible while adding close to zero work for humans.

Again, thank you to whomever did the block 43 link brute force. You have provided valuable help to improve the format. Good job finding the solution too.

It was an interesting coincidence to see that my two mistakes sort of cancelled each other out.. People were able to challenge block 44 even with the fairness of the process for blocks 42 and 43 in question. Having no link actually worked to mitigate damage from that problem.

I also note that for some reason the Bitcoin addresses for the funds in both block 42 and block 44 start with the same number 8, which is a specially nice fit for block 44, but completely random luck this time. Getting 8 for block 44 is unlikely, and getting 8 for both of these at the same time is even less likely to happen.

I wonder if I can use that coincidence for a block in the future...

This three block chain has survived much longer as the last one. Obviously both challenges in 42 and 44 are fairly hard to solve. That is bad news for players trying long and hard, but good news for people seeing these blocks only a couple of hours later.

Anyway, I have no way of really knowing in advance how many minutes or hours a block will survive without hints. The only way to find out is to just go ahead an post the block.

I also just introduced a new hint format for these two hard blocks. Don't give hint immediately, but announce in advance. And then make the hint itself a quiz in a tweet storm, with the hint getting increasingly easy to understand as time progresses between tweets.

Thank you for playing. Next three block quizchain will have BFUB format for all three, but the BFUB field in 45 and 46 will be fixed in the question, making those easier to solve.





Complete Quizchain





First Round

Block 1

Solve this multiple choice question:

a) Satoshi is CEO of Bitcoin and holds the Bitcoin patent.

b) Satoshi is an anonymous cypherpunk and the first one to succeed building private Internet cash.

Hint: The correct answer is b).

Add the last 3 digits of my favorite Bitcoin address to the text of alternative b). For example, if that address ends in "abc" take the string "Satoshi is an anonymous cypherpunk and the first one to succed building private Internet cash.abc".

Take a SHA 256 hash of that and use it as entropy in the Ian Coleman BIP 39 tool. Find the private key in the first address of that wallet at the bottom.

Good luck finding my favorite Bitcoin address.

Solved after about 14 hours.

Block 2

Question: The following sentence is the first in the top post of a certain subreddit I am following. One of the letters in the family name of the author is changed from lower to upper case. Change the other letters in his name in the same way for the solution. Then append the last three digits from the private key of the solution to block 1. Do a SHA 256 hash on that and use as entropy in the Ian Coleman brain wallet tool. Sentence:

I posted A similar message to the Basecamp, but had to also come visit you all here on Reddit.

Solved in 30 minutes.

Block 3

First part: Pick a random 3 digit number.

Second part: Last three digits of the private key of block 2.

Combine both parts, take SHA 256 hash of that and input the result as entropy in the Ian Coleman brain wallet tool.

Solved immediately with prize claimed in block after funding transaction.

Block 4

Do you know two words? They are in the word "know".

As always, take the solution string (no space between the two words), append the last three digits from the private key of the third block, run a SHA 256 hash on that and then use as entropy for brain wallet.

This one is difficult, so here is one extra hint. Look at my handle name.

I expect the prize money to survive for a bit longer this time. I will post the solution in about an hour.

Solved in 90 minutes.

Block 5

On this day ten years ago, how many bitcoins would you mine on average?

I skip explaining the format this time, if you don't know it, look at one of the previous "Quizchain" posts.

This one is fairly easy again. Should not take too long.

Solved in 90 minutes.

Block 6

Do you know another two words?

The two words I want need to be input in normal capitalization and a space between them. And there should be a space between the second word and the last three digits of the private key for block 5.

I think this is fairly difficult. No hints for this one and this will be the last one I am posting for a while. Good luck and have fun :)

Solved in 17 hours. Next three blocks all started with the two words I asked for.

Block 7

First big prize block (77 mbtc).

First phase:

Four words and a period at the end.

Stay tuned for the updates...

Solved after 12.5 hours and three hints.

Block 8

How many mbtc do I plan to offer as the prize for block 77?

Solved after 3.5 hours.

Block 9

I am an evil AI robot ruling the world. I have captured a human (you) and give you a choice. You have to reply with one sentence of six words. If that sentence is a lie, I will torture you to death. If in contrast you say the truth, I will kill you in a swift and merciful way. As a robot, I am completely unable to break one of those promises. What is your answer?

Answer in the format of a six word sentence like this one: This is a six word sentence.HwX

Solved after 11 hours. First major mistake on my part, not noticing that I copypasted a line break when hashing.

Block 10

Question: Four words within Einstein. Format: "word1 word2 word3 word4.fnw". The last three digits from the broken link in block 9 are set as fnw for this block. German words allowed.

Solved after 25 hours. Line break mistake of block 9 also in this block.

Block 11

Can you find the solution with absolutely no hint whatsoever?

Solved after 40 minutes.

Block 12

Two words in harmony. Format: word1 word2 gFm (last block private key link).

Solved after 30 minutes.

Block 13

I hate the number 13. Fortunately it will come up only once on our way to 77. So the question for this one will be impossible to solve until I post the hint for the answer to block 77 much later.

Question: What are the first seven words in the hint to block 77? Format: word1 word2 word3 word4 word5 word6 word7 xXJ.

I am NOT going to give any hints for this, since I fully intend for this block to stay unsolved until the hint to block 77 is posted. It will take some time to get there. But to keep the chain going, here are the last three digits of the private key for this block: xhm.

Impossible to solve until end of experiment.

Block 14

Question: Two words with harmony. Format: word 1 word 2 xhm.

Hint: This has been big news in Japan about a week ago.

Solved after 12 hours.

Block 15

I had a similar theme in an earlier block. I give a sentence and you need to edit it slightly for the solution.

The sentence is

The longest chain not only serves as proof of the sequence of the events witnessed

Remove certain letters from that sentence for the solution, then append the last three digits of the private key of the previous block, with a space between the solution and the linking three digits.

Solved after 12 hours. Another block with failed hash. Switched to MD5 hash without noticing.

Block 16

40 is an illegal number. Fix it. Format for the answer: [solution] [linking three digits from block 15]. Exactly one space between solution and chain link.

Solved after 16 hours. Hashing failure mistake of block 15 also in this one.

Block 17

Welcome to special block 17, a lucky number. For this occasion, I add both digits for a prize of 8 mbtc. Funding transaction below. I also note that it is 7 days on Reddit for me, so this is another reason to celebrate with an extremely hard block.

No hint. And no, "No hint" is not the answer this time. Format: [solution] [link], with exactly one space between them.

Solved after 6 hours.

Block 18

Question: Start with "offs". Add the missing letters to get the solution string. Format: [solution] [link]. with exactly one space between them.

Solved after 5 hours.

Block 19

This is obvious at first sight. Once the previous block is solved, it will survive only for a second. Or maybe for a second second after that. I still post it here for reasons that will become apparent later on.

Question: Multiple choice, two alternatives.

a) second

b) Second

First alternative is second, and second alternative is Second. Hint: I don't think the first alternative is correct in this case, the second one looks much more promising. Format [solution] [link] with exactly one space between them.

Solved immediately.

Block 20

Question: 132

Format: [solution] [link] with exactly one space between them and no period anywhere. First letter of solution is capitalized.

Solved in 45 hours after two hints.

Block 21

Question: Can you find the solution with absolutely no hint whatsoever?

Solved in 5 hours after one hint.

Block 22

Question: You start out with A O I. Which three words do you expand that to (only English words allowed, all words starting with capital letter).

Format: [word1 word2 word3] [link] with exactly one space between three words and link.

Solved in 3.5 hours. Needed Wattpad story as reference.

Block 23

Question: Complete the following sentence.

We found out that this is the second [6 words and period missing].

Format: [word1 word2 word3 word4 word5 word6.] [link] with exactly one space between solution and link.

Impossible to solve until final version of chapter 2 of Wattpad story is revealed.

Block 24

Question: Read backwards.

Format: [solution] [link] with exactly one space between.

Solved in 50 minutes.

Block 25

Question: Wait, but why?

Solved immediately, prize claimed in next block after funding transaction.

Block 26

This block was a test case to see if someone was alert enough to see where the next block was going before I even posted it here.

There was someone. The prize from this funding transaction was claimed in less than a minute. Good job, winner, anticipating what the next block would be. I have to admit it was really easy to anticipate this time. But it was not obvious when this would happen, or to wait for it even before I posted this block on Reddit...

Answer for this one was Z, as this is the last occasion to do a single letter answer.

Format: [solution] [link] with exactly one space between them.

Solved immediately, prize claimed in same block as funding transaction.

Block 27

Block with increased prize, cross sum of 27 for 9 mbtc.

Question: I am looking for the name of a gambler.

Format: [first name] [family name] [link] with one space between each.

Solved in 20 minutes, brute forcing suspected, which resulted in adding brute force block field.

Block 28

Question: What is BFU?

Format: [solution] [link] with one space between.

Solved in 5 hours. Failed block because of wrong link.

Block 29

Question: Second version.

Format: [solution] [link] with exactly one space between them. Have fun solving this one and thank you for playing.

(You need to look at Chapter 3 of this story for solving this.)

Solved in 80 minutes.

Block 30

Question: 4231

Format: [solution] BotFU [BotFU] [link], see example above. Hint: BotFU for this is two words, both starting with capital letters.

Difficult. Solved in 39 hours

Block 31

Question: Bitcoin Second

Format: [solution] BFUB [BFUB] [link] with exactly one space between them and all words in answer capitalized.

Block 32

Satoshi Nakamoto is

a) human

b) AI

c) no way to know

Format: [solution] BFUB [BFUB text] [link]

BFUB text first word only capitalized. 4 words in BFUB field.

Needs chapter 3 text as reference.

Solved in 7 hours.

Block 33

Question: An easy math problem. 4231 minus 132.

Format: [solution] BFUB [BFUB text] [link].

Solved in 27 hours.

Block 34

Question: Zhang Yingyu 1617

Format: [solution] BFUB [BFUB text] [link].

Solution is one word, capitalization will be evident. BFUB text is my favorite Bitcoin address.

Needed context from previous block funding address.

Block 35

Question: Think

Format: [solution] [link] with exactly one space between them.

Solution is a string of three words, second one of them Yang.

Solved in 5 hours.

Block 36

Question:

How are you this morning, Ms. Nakamoto?

Thank you, I am good.

Format: [word1 word2 word3 word4] [link] with exactly one space between them.

Solved immediately, with prize claiming transaction in same block as funding transaction.

Block 37

Block with increased prize, 10 mbtc.

Question: James Bond

Format: [solution] BFUB [BFUB string] [link] with exactly one space between them.

Solved in 3 hours.

Block 38

Question: Villain in the first James Bond novel

Format: [solution] BFUB [BFUB] [link]

BFUB for this are two letters, the second letter of each of the parts of the name. For example, if the solution was James Bond, BFUB would be ao. This defeats any dictionary search that tries only the "James Bond" string, as long as the script is not adapted to include this.

Solved immediately, with prize claiming transaction in next block after funding transaction.

Block 39

Question: Second

Format: [solution] BFUB [BFUB] [link]

BFUB is like last block, second letter of the words in solution. For example, last block's solution was Le Chiffre, so BFUB was eh for that one.

Solved in one hour.

Block 40

Question: three letter word starting with h and ending with t.

Format: [solution] BFUB [BFUB] [link] with exactly one space between.

BFUB is three capital letters. If you found the solution the correct way, you will find those three letters easily.

(Solution needed context from private key of previous block).

Solved in one hour.

Block 41

Question:Can you find the solution with absolutely no hint whatsoever?

Format: [solution] BFUB [BFUB] [link] with exactly one space between.

Looking for one single capital letter in the solution. BFUB format is [word1] [word2] [word3].

Solved in four hours.

Block 42

Question: Of course you all knew the solution to this for a long time. But do you guess the slight twist on it?

Format: [solution] BFUB [BFUB] [link]

BFUB is in the format [word1] [word2] both in lowercase, with one space in between. If you guess the twist on the solution, BFUB should be easy.

Solved after three days and seven hours.

Block 43

Question: Year of first Internet scam

Format: [solution] BFUB [BFUB] [link]

Resistance to immediate solving for this comes only from finding BFUB, so no hints for BFUB in this block. Should still be relatively easy.

Solved after two and a half hours.

Block 44

Failed block, forgot including link in hash. Failure disclosed soon.

Question: Relax. Listen to some nice music. Wait for the idea to come. Have fun, even if the idea fails to show up.

https://youtu.be/W3q8Od5qJio

Format: [solution]BFUB [BFUB]

No link provided here, you need to solve previous block.

Not solved until decisive hint provided 24 days later.

Block 45

Question: Bitcoin Second

Format: [solution] BFUB Have fun with this block Da6Sn4J

Link for this is set to Da6Sn4J.

Solved after nineteen hours.

Block 46

Question:

Looking for another Bitcoin address, starting with 1A1. Not mentioned by me before here or elsewhere. I do NOT own this address.

Format: [solution] BFUB Think. Think harder. [link]

Find solution, which is the Bitcoin address I am looking for, leave BFUB unchanged and use last 7 digits of previous private key for link.

Solved after 16 hours. Solution of this was the puzzle for block 77.

Block 47

Block with increased prize, 11 mbtc.

Question: Another difficult math problem. 1231

Format; [solution] BFUB [BFUB] [link]

BFUB will be four or less words, all of them lower case and seperated by one space, if there are two or more.

Solved after five days.

Block 48

Failed block. Changed name of BFUB field to TOMI and hashed with old name (same failure in next blocks 49 and 50).

Question: Like in that story, you want to send me a bribe. But you want to use Bitcoin. What amount in mbtc do you send to what address?

Format: [solution] TOMI This one is really easy. No need to bribe anyone to get it. [link]

Format for the solution is [amount in mbtc] for example 0.7 mbtc and then a Bitcoin address. One space between amount and address.

"Story" is the one about the Chinese Bribe Scam in chapter one above.

Solved in seven hours.

Block 49

Failed block, same mistake as with 48.

Question: You are looking for three words. Those three words are all lowercase. And they must be in the correct order.

Format: [word1 word2 word3] TOMI Good luck with this block [link]

Solved after 14 hours.

Block 50

Failed block, same mistake as with 48 and 49.

Question: Multiple choice

a) blue

b) green

c) red

d) yellow

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Format for solution is only answer, leave out leading a). For example, if you think a) is the answer, write blue as solution, not a) blue.

TOMI format is [word1 word2 word3], with all words lower case.

Solved after 14 hours.

Block 51

Question: What is my favorite block?

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

[solution] is not number of block, but [solution] of that block. TOMI field is necessary to stop people from just brute forcing with all 50 solutions, which I assume to be in a script cracking list somewhere. It has the format [word1 word2 word3], with all words in lower case. Unsolved blocks are not possible solutions for this.

Solved after two hours.

Block 52

Question: Six three letter words. They need to be in the right order.

Format: [solution] TOMI means wealth. I hope you find it. [link]

Solved after fifteen hours.

Block 53

Failed block. Managed to make two mistakes at the same time. Felt like giving up the whole thing...

Question: You are looking for one word and one name. The word is contained in the name.

Format: [solution] TOMI I hope you like this block. [link]

[solution] is [name word], with the word lower case and the name in normal capitalization.

Block 54

Question: I am looking for 4 four letter words. Most relevant first. No words of dubious moral value in this list.

Format: [word1 word2 word3 word 4] TOMI Thank you for playing. NRqEsd7

Solved after nine hours.

Block 55

Question: Do you know another four letter word?

Format: [solution] TOMI No, not that kind of four letter word. [link]

Solved after about one hour, even while I messed up the hash for this block by not including the string "TOMI".

Block 56

Failed block.

Question: AOI Second

Format: [Solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Solved after 19 days, once I noted my mistake and corrected it.

Block 57

Question: I am looking for conclusive proof that someone named Craig (I am not telling you which one, don't want to be sued by the dude) is Satoshi. Also I don't want to mention the full name, since he does not deserve ANY attention.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] link

[solution] format is two capital letters. TOMI format is [word1 word2 word3], all words in lower case and no period at the end.

Solved after nine hours.

Block 58

Question: You all know this three letter word.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] PojFPus

[solution] is one three letter word in lower case.

[TOMI] is the name of the method used to get it, one word in upper case (only first letter capital).

Solved after thirty minutes.

Block 59

Question: God

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Needed context from private key of previous block.

Solved after about five hours.

Block 60

Question: Satoshi's real identity (don't tell anyone if you found it).

Format [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Format for [TOMI] is six words, normal capitalization, no period at end.

Solved after 12 hours.

Block 61

Question: Beautiful four letter word.

Format: [solution] TOMI Atbash [link]

Solution word is capital letter first letter only.

Solved at sight and prize claimed in next block.

Block 62

Question: Six letter word.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Word in solution is lower case.

Solved in two hours.

Block 63

How should I call you, darling?

Format: [solution] TOMI If you don't get this, sorry, it is hard [link]

Solved in eight hours.

Block 64

Question: Looking for one capital letter out of two.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Solved in 28 hours.

Block 65

Question: I am looking for the time of the day.

Format: [solution] TOMI [word1 word2 number] [link]

Format for solution is like this: For example for half past six pm time: 18:30:27, last two digits are seconds.

Both words in TOMI are lower case.

Solved in 80 minutes.

Block 66

Question: Multiple choice.

a) Second

b) SECOND

Hint: The SECOND solution is much more promising, since it is the actual capitalization on the story title. As always with multiple choice, do not include leading letter in solution. If you think a) is the right answer (it is not), you would write "Second" and not "a) Second" in the solution field.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Solved immediately after release of TOMI. Experiment with this lottery format showed that I should avoid it.

Block 67

Big prize block, 67 mbtc for this one.

Question: Why Nakamoto?

Format: [solution] TOMI Try your best shot first [link]

[solution] is three words, all upper case, in alphabetical order.

Solved soon after private key to previous block was available.

Block 68

Question: Looking for a 10 digit password.

Format: [solution] TOMI Will use puzzle by Satoshi for block 77 [link]

Solved in one hour.

Block 69

When I posted the last block asking for 10 random characters, I did not expect that so little time would pass until the smart and talented wizards here find them.

Question: Upside down.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Format of TOMI is [word1 word2] with capitalization obvious from the solution method.

Solved in two days after first hint.

Block 70

Question: Looking for yet another Bitcoin address.

Format: [solution] TOMI Anyone find Satoshi's puzzle yet? [link]

Solved after 12 hours.

Block 71

Increased prize block, 8 mbtc.

Question: merry idea

Format [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Solved in 14 hours after first hint.

Block 72

Increased prize block, 9 mbtc.

Question: After the block

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Solved in one and a half days after repeated hints.

Block 73

Increased prize block, 10 mbtc.

Question: Looking for a 10 digit number.

Format:[solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Solved in 26 hours after one hint.

Block 74

Increased prize block, 11 mbtc.

Question: Victim of the perfect murder.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Solved in two days after second hint.

Block 75

Increased prize block, 12 mbtc.

Question: No one knows how to pronounce this four letter word.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Solved after two and a half days, a couple of minutes before first hint.

Block 76

Big prize block, 76 mbtc for this one.

Question: Jesus

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Solved after three and a half days and one hint.

Block 77

Failed block, made subtle hashing mistake, but corrected that way before anyone came close to the solution.

As announced earlier, this puzzle is written by Satoshi. I think it is beautiful, a much higher level than the second rate stuff I came up with in previous blocks.

Question: The solution is the puzzle.

Format: [solution] TOMI omit TOMI [link]

Solution format is eight items in two sets of four. Two items ciphertext and two items plaintext each, 44 read from left and 44 read from right.

Hints

Block 7

Hint 1: Four words and a period at the end.

Hint 2: Second clue. My handle name is Aoi Nakamoto.

Hint 3: Third and last clue: Why did I choose that handle name?

Block 10

Google "with Einstein".

Block 14

Hope someone sees the light soon.

Block 18

Solution is name of a famous person with distant relation to Bitcoin.

Block 20

Hint 1: Cool Japan.

Hint 2: We are looking for a list of items related to Cool Japan, which is not a list of kanji. Must have at least 132 items on it, but actually has 812 at last count.

Hint 3: Another Satoshi involved in this one.

Block 21

The block is an obvious reference to another one ten blocks before.

Block 28

Hint 1: I wonder what FU alone might mean. May have some meaning like "thank you for attacking my chain, I really appreciate that" :-) #132 #notMetamon

Hint 2: Let's wrap up 28, which was posted in anger and half asleep. B is Brute and FU is just FU. Almost there now...

Hint 3: BruteFU would be right if I thought brute forcers deserved only one FU...

Block 29

Hint 1: Same method as in block 2. I am lazy, have changed only two letters...

Hint 2: block 2 good match to second changing only two letters good match to second

Block 30

Hint 1: 423 1

still very hard to see this very old pattern.

Hint 2: kill your father if you want kill

Block 31

B Second





Round 2 of the Quizchain

Block 1

Big prize (77 mbtc) block because of mistake in block 56 of first round.

Question: A rather famous naMe.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Solved in three days soon after second hint.

Block 2

Another big prize (77 mbtc) block because of mistake in block 77 of first round.

Format: [solution]

Needs context from Wattpad story.

Solved in two hours without hint.

Block 3

Question: dirty word with XA

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Needed context from Bitcoin news of the day.

Solved in two and a half hours without hint.

Block 4

Question: Looking for a four letter word. Yes, quite safe for work.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

Needed context from previous block private key.

Solved in 90 minutes.

Block 5

Question: Five words.

Format: [word1 word2 word3 word4 word5]

Solved at sight and prize claiming transaction included in same block as funding transaction.

Block 6

Question: Six words.

Format: [word1 word2 word3 word4 word5 word6]

Solved without hint in 26 hours.

Block 7

Big prize (77 mbtc) block.

The question is to find the name for that altcoin, starting out from the name "Bitcoin".

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

I do not need a link, since the entropy of this is sufficient to block outside brute forcing.

[solution] is capitalized like "Bitcoin", which means only first letter in capitals.

[Tomi] are three words in alphabetical order [word1 word2 word3], with one of them starting with a capital letter like the solution and the other two in all lower case.

Solved in 38 hours soon after first hint.

Block 8

Question: Eight words.

Format: [word1 word2 word3 word4 word5 word6 word7 word8] [link]

Solved after 28 hours without hint.

Block 9

Thank you for playing the quizchain. Another normal 7 mbtc block now. Or that is what I had in mind.

This should be pretty easy for both bots and humans. Maybe belongs in the category "solved at sight". If so, this is an advantage for human players.

Running a script does take a bit of time for setting it up, which may be already too much if a human player gets this idea immediately.

Funding transaction below.

https://www.smartbit.com.au/tx/b876a070c9dc65105b08bf11c179e9083656670852e4a5a8ca9c787aaf90ceca

And another funding transaction below:

https://www.smartbit.com.au/tx/6f3e16265734581839c82d1660505f0dcd42f04a62c10f2c8bb7d754f966ec0f

Yes. I managed to mess up slightly again. I did a funding transaction already when I wrote this block yesterday. And just did another one today, having forgotten about the previous one. Very sad mistake, which means that whoever solves this block walks away with 14 mbtc instead of 7.

But I prefer this kind of mistake to the one that happened in the first round at block 9, where I included a line break in the hash, leading to the first failed block of the round.

I also recall having written somewhere in the Wattpad story that I will under no circumstances take back a prize for myself, once I have sent it.

Question: 11-9

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

First three digits of MD5 hash are 923.

First digit of solution only MD5 hash is 0.

First digit of TOMI field only MD5 hash is 6.

Have fun solving this easy block. I expect some of the smart human wizards attacking this block to solve it on sight and give the brute force users not even enough time to set up their scripts.

Hint 1 (after 24 hours): Found the idea for this block in a related Wikipedia article.

Hint 2 (after 48 hours): Relevant article is on number 9.

Solved soon after this second hint by multiple players, which induced a lottery element on which prize claiming transaction gets confirmation first. Good job everyone solving it, and congratulations to the lucky winner.





Solutions of Round 1

Block 1

The answer to the mulitple choice question is obviously b), so the first part of the string is

"Satoshi is an anonymous cypherpunk and the first one to succed building private Internet cash."

My favorite Bitcoin address is of course 1AndrewYangForPresident2o2o6zmPzd, as is apparent from my posting history here.

So the whole string is "Satoshi is an anonymous cypherpunk and the first one to succed building private Internet cash.Pzd".

Block 2

I posted A similar messaGe to the Basecamp, but had to also come visit You all here oN Reddit.

(family name Yang)

Block 3

Random number was 777, and last block private key last three digits was hBF.

Block 4

Solution was arrowmouth83S, with 83S the last digits of the private key from block 3 and arrow and mouth the two words contained in "know". Explanation: The Chinese symbol (Kanji) for "know" is composed of the two elements "arrow" (to the left) and "mouth" (to the right).

Block 5

Satoshi answered this question on bitcointalk in 2009 like this:

"Typically a few hundred right now." Add last three digits of previous private key 6TX to claim the funds.

Block 6

Solved now, though it took some time. The two words I was looking for were "Thank you". Please note that these two words are the first in all blocks from 7 on, so I actually got away with disclosing the answer right in the next block question. :)

Block 7

Stay tuned for the updates...

Update 1: Second clue. My handle name is Aoi Nakamoto.

Update 2: Third and last clue: Why did I choose that handle name?

Update 3: Someone has claimed the prize. Solution was "Satoshi without the consonants."

Block 8

As will surprise exactly no one, the correct answer for this is 777.

Block 9

The correct answer was "You will torture me to death.HwX".

Block 10

Solution was "Moonwalking with ein Stein.fnw"

Explanation: Four words within is two words with and two words in. The two words with are those from the famous book titile that shows up in a Google search, the two words in are just "ein Stein" (a stone in German).

Block 11

Actually it was pretty easy. Just take the question as it was and add the previous block private key digits, which results in "Can you find the solution with absolutely no hint whatsover?peH" as the string to hash.

Block 12

The two words were "rice" and "mouth", which form the kanji . This has the three core meanings "harmony", "peace", and "Japan". The reason for that is that if you have rice to eat, it is easy to keep peace and harmony. It looks very similar to the other one used in a previous block,  for "know".

Block 13

Impossible to solve without final version of Chapter 2 of this story.

Block 14

The solution for this block was luminous command. The reason is that the Showa era used the kanji  together with harmony and the Reiwa era is using  together with harmony. Two words with harmony. Once you see the light on the two era names connection, it only becomes a question of finding the core meanings of those kanji in English.

Block 15

The lngest chn nt nly serves s prf f the sequence f the events wtnessed ZNb

The letters removed are A, O, and I, as in my handle name. Hint on my twitter feed was the "Satoshi without the consonants" tagline at the top. This time without the vowels...

Block 16

Solution was derived from the handle name of my 16th follower at the Twitter feed, which is HE4OBEK.

The "4O" in the middle is illegal in the Bitcoin address space, since people may be unable to distinguish "0" from "O". To fix it, replace it with lowercase o, for a solution string "HE4oBEK".

Block 17

Actually there was a hint already in this post. I said above "I also note that it is 7 days on Reddit for me". The correct solution was to go back in my posting history to the first post, which was a link to this Bitcoin address:

1AndrewYangForPresident2o2ozm6Pzd

That is already the solution string. That in turn is a hint for block 16, since in that burn address "2020" is changed to "2o2o" because "0" is illegal in Bitcoin addresses.

Block 18

Kerckhoffs

He is most famous for the Kerckhoffs principle, which says that the security of a cipher may not depend on its method being unknown. All security must come from the password and none from obscurity.

I bring him up here because when I think of a puzzle almost all of the resistance against solving comes from the method not being known. Maybe I should have used sffohkcreK as a solution, this would fit the general idea even better. Many of the blocks are easily solved once the method is understood. Most obviously in block 11 and 6 (some of my favorites until now).

Block 19

Second.

Block 20

Solution was Metamon, which is the Japanese name of the Pokemon Ditto, as can be seen here

https://m.bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Ditto_(Pokmon)

also if you don't speak Japanese. The obvious connection to this quizchain is that I do lot of meta stuff, like in the next block.

It was clear from the start that you were looking for a list of at least 132 items not kanji. What other items in long lists come to mind when thinking of Japan?

Block 21

The method for this was pointing to block 11 with the question (since that question was identical to the question in this block) and then expecting the leap back another 10 blocks to the first block, then use the solution to that after fixing the spelling mistake it had.

Solution as noted in comments was "Satoshi was an anonymous cypherpunk and the first one to succeed building private Internet cash."

Block 22

Artificial Overlord Intelligence. AI is obvious, but I noticed after posting that Omnipotent would be an even better fit.

Block 23

Solution impossible until final version of Chapter 2 is posted later.

Block 24

The block number 24 backwards is 42, which in turn will be the answer to block 42 as well.

Block 25

Solution was Y, as the 25th letter in the alphabet, chosen for block 25. Can't do that much longer, so I squeezed it in now.

Block 26

Answer for this one was Z, as this is the last occasion to do a single letter answer.

Block 27

James Bond.

This was an unfortunate choice, since that name is in password cracking lists and therefore the solution is wide open to brute forcing. I introduced countermeasures to brute force solutions as a reaction to this block.

Block 28

Solution was BruteFUFUFUFUFUFUFUFUFU

Context: I thought that someone had brute forced block 27, which was weak against such an attempt since the solution was sure to be found in password cracker lists. That suspicion may have been wrong, but at the time I was angry, could not sleep, had the idea to give some FUs to the attacker. The number is nine, because I wanted to have one for each of the mbtc in the block 27 prize money.

In hindsight, this was wrong in multiple ways. For one, I might have been mistaken in assuming brute force. This may have simply been just a good player and a well deserved win. On the other hand, the winner did not come out, so I have actually no way of knowing.

More importantly, having people try to brute force solutions is a good thing.

If they succeed, obviously the format is too weak and needs improvement. And if they do not succeed, that is actually the only way to prove strength against attack. Any system is only as strong as the best attack that failed against it. It follows that there is zero strength for any system no one bothers to attack.

In hindsight, I would use BotFU as a solution string, since I have no reason to be angry about humans using all tools at their disposal. I only want that the blocks get solved by human players as opposed to bots.

Another failure was that half asleep I actually managed somehow to mess up the link from the previous block, the first time that happened. Obviously not a good idea to post in the middle of the night and in angry mood.

But if the result of these failures is getting a system stronger against bot attacks, that is a good thing.

Again, thanks for playing everyone, including people using bots to attack. And good job, winner, figuring out how many FUs I thought appropriate in the situation.

Block 29

Solution: just change the o and i in "voice" in the second sentence to "O" and "I", same method as in Block 2. Only two letters changed is good match to title "second" as well as to method from block 2.

Background: My first experiment with using larger textfiles. Someone in comments kindly pointed out the site dropmefiles.com, which seems to work better as a delivery format than Reddit or Wattpad. With Wattpad people have to jump through hoops to copy the text. With Reddit, line breaks disappear, making the text difficult to read.

One reason to try this now was that no password cracker file will have a solution with 235 words, and certainly not this one, so this seemed to be pretty secure against brute force.

Block 30

423 was a reference to one of the oldest puzzles in history. I wanted to include a classic in this one. It resolves to roughtly "human". 1 is just first and also a reference to block 1 and in turn to the campaign slogan "Humanity First" as the solution. BFUB is "Sphinx Yang", for a complete answer string of "Humanity First BotFU Sphinx Yang JRu"

Block 31

A. (one capital letter).

Method: Look at first letter of Bitcoin, disregard others for B Second. A is first in alphabet, B second.

Finding BFUB: working from solution, develop hint. In this case Before B.

Discussion: Looking at the prize address, we see that this survived about 4 hours. Much longer than the other one letter blocks 25 and 26. Those were solved immediately. I find that this method is efficient to slow down bots. It makes solving for humans more difficult as a cost, though.

Block 32

Solution: human

BUFB Before artificial intelligence explosion

Discussion: Obviously a) is the right answer. At least 10 years ago there was no AI capable of doing what Satoshi did. "Before artificial intelligence explosion" is a good reason to choose the solution.

Background: A multiple quiz question like this one is trivially brute forced even without using a script. Do three MD5 hashes worst case and you're done. That in turn means as a quiz author I can't do a multiple choice question like this one without some form of brute force user block.

For this question, it was just a problem of finding a string of words that would be a hint to the right solution. If you tried with the wrong solutions b) and c) you were doing it wrong. The question is still honestly which of the three alternatives is correct. If you choose c) as correct alternative, the only explanation is that the whole world is a simulation now, which does not make much sense.

Block 33

Solution was "Think harder BFUB Yang hat".

The substraction problem was Hoax and misdirection, the only word that mattered here was "math". And the problem was about the word "math", which is supposed to mean either Make America Think or Make America Think Harder. Very hard to solve, I don't know how I thought this should be [Medium] difficulty.

If you made up your mind on a) as a solution, the remaining step is only finding words that point to a) out of the potential candidates. It is going from the solution to the hint, in exactly the opposite direction of usual quiz solving. I think that fact makes it interesting, even if rather hard to solve.

Block 34

Hoax (word contained in prize funding address for block 33).

Block 35

Solution: MATH Yang hat BFUB no BFUB for this block.

Background: The Yang campaign uses hats like the Trump MAGA hats with the last two letters changed to TH, which reads MATH at first glance but also has the idea "Make America Think" or "Make America Think Harder" associated.

Block 36

Solution for this was "Google only one way", which is a new phrase I mentioned in my hint post. Relation to the question was that the answer from me would be rephrased as "Thank you, I am goof." in a Twitter conversation. Said conversation already happened, and thank you to the friendly people who took part in it.

Block 37

The only point here to find the solution was to replace the 0 in 007 for o, since 0 is not allowed in Bitcoin addresses. From there on my BFUB hint was simply 0o, meaning replace 0 for o.

I am still not sure that this was a good BFUB. Its format was not announced from the start on and it actually is not something that comes to mind immediately. So while this may have succeeded in keeping bots from winning, we really don't know, since I have no idea if there is anyone running scripts to find solutions and if so, what resources they devote to getting one of the meager prizes in this chain.

Block 38

Le Chiffre BFUB eh.

Block 39

Mr Big BFUB ri.

Block 40

The solution was the word "hit", since I noticed again that this word turned up in the private key of block 40. If I want to use that, I need brute force protection, since you could easily exhaust the three possibilities here, even without bothering to fire up a script.

Block 41

Solution for this was P, the method behind it was taking the obvious first step "no" and then noticing that the letters in "no" are following each other in the alphabet, which makes P the next one. And "next to no" a fairly obvious BFUB field.

Block 42

"42" BFUB quotation marks

Block 43

1604 BFUB Book of Swindles

Block 44

As noted in the last hint, solution was to leave the solution field blank. Since there was no link for this, the only thing to find out was the BFUB field.

I chose the line in the song lyrics that made me use this video in the first place:

and I have said nothing

That is the BFUB field. It is one of the lines in my last hint as well, so after that hint, it should not be too difficult.

One other idea for the BFUB was to use

and I have said

leaving the "nothing" out, but I wanted to use the more easily found alternative.

Block 45

Someone in comments remarked that the same question was used before and had a different answer. I do not agree with that. This block has no BFUB field, which means that the solution can not be "A" as the last time I used this idea.

That is because this time the solution is shifting ALL letters in "Bitcoin" to the letter before in the alphabet, as opposed to shifing only the first in the other block.

Block 46

1A1zP1eP5QGefi2DMPTfTL5SLmv7DivfNa (Genesis block address, also puzzle for block 77).

Block 47

The solution was rather simple. Only one digit, the number 7, as the cross sum of the number posted in the question. And the words cross sum as BFUB field. One reason was because this was a block including 7. One other reason was that this time the Hoax was making people think this is again about the MATH hats (like in previous blocks) while it was actually exactly what the question said, though the part of it being "difficult" was another piece of misdirection.

Block 48

Solution was 0.777 mbtc 1AndrewYangforPresident2o2ozm6Pzd.

Block 49

Solution: hat hot hit

Block 50

Solution: blue BFUB key on cover

Block 51

Second TOMI title on cover

Block 52

hat hot hit bat bot bit

Block 53

Satoshi's stash

Block 54

hint hunt bent bunt

Block 55

Hoax TOMI No, not that kind of four letter word

Block 56

AOH TOMI I after H

Block 57

Solution was "AI" and TOMI was "in both names". I am sure you will all agree this is absolutely conclusive evidence for the claim that Satoshi must be someone named Craig. At least that is probably the best evidence for that particular claim that will ever be available.

Block 58

Solution method was the Atbash cipher, which substitutes the letter opposing in the alphabet. The three letter word in the question was "all", using the Atbash on that gives "zoo". Actually there are not ever so many words that result in a valid word when encoded with Atbash. And since TOMI is the method, the word "Atbash" goes there.

This method is one of the oldest cipher systems in history, older than the bible, where it is used in several places. It is every easy to solve which makes it an attractive option for building an easy block.

Block 59

Solution was another find in the link from the previous block. The private key of 58 was KxgvXT1LidEhei6XizyCpR5zgPbALFYYxT6R1tANmSgPKZeuhs51.

Note the last seven digits. They start almost with the name of Zeus, one of the Greek gods. And in the Atbash cipher I had as a method in block 58, actually h resolves to s. Also, the 51 at the end might be read as "move letter 5 one letter to the left". Anyway, once you see those seven digits, the solution is quite obvious, even without the extra Atbash or 51 element. And TOMI for this was just these seven digits.

Block 60

Tom Marvolo Riddle TOMI He who must not be named

Block 61

Solution was Love, since that word can be made from two Atbash pairs, LO and EV. Not many words share that quality, and the other one I noticed is much less beautiful.

Block 62

The hint to the Wattpad story was relevant because of the word I was looking for was wizard. But the TOMI field was exactly the same as in block 61. This word is unique in connection with Atbash. I found it in the Wikipedia article about Atbash. It is composed entirely of Atbash pairs, WD IR and AZ. As a beautiful result of this, the word results in itself spelled backwards in Atbash cipher. The previous block (Love) is a four letter word from two Atbash pairs (LO and EV). There are not many of these around.

This was extremely easy once you restricted your search to the Atbash method, which was not so difficult to think of since the previous block also used it.

Block 63

The "darling" I was looking for was the Chancellor at the time of the Bitcoin Genesis Block. And the correct way to address him as noted in his Wikipedia article was the solution.

I have written a longer discussion of this block and how I imagine it was solved at the Wattpad story.

Block 64

Y TOMI Atbash 2

Hoax on this was reading it as one capital letter out of two letters, as opposed to one capital letter out of 2. 2 as second in alphabet points to B and recent massive use of Atbash to solution Y. If one of the items in TOMI is Atbash, 2 seems a logical choice for the second one.

Block 65

Solution was found in the timestamp of "blockchain block 65", which was 21:55:03, and the TOMI field was what I just put in quotation marks.

Block 66

SECOND

Block 67

Block solved and prize claimed not much after it was open for claiming (that is after I posted TOMI for previous block). Congrats to the winner and thank you for playing. Winner has posted his reasoning in comments. I have a couple of comments to add.

The idea behind this is that I think N aka M oto is based on the MN letter pair of the Atbash cipher. That in turn is right in the middle of the alphabet, the 13th and last letter pair in a foldover of the alphabet.

As explained by winner in comments, Naka means middle and Moto means origin, among other things. So the idea here is that the name's origin comes from the Atbash pair in the middle.

Since I am NOT Satoshi I have no idea if that is actually true, but I liked the idea.

(Winner's explanation):

The solution was "Atbash Middle Origin". From the question, "Why Nakamoto?", I first tried to answer the question with many different three word explanations, but hit a bunch of dead ends.

Then I decided to look at the words separately, disregarding the meaning of the question. So the two parts are "Why" and "Nakamoto"?

The word "Why" sounds like the letter "Y", and because there were a number of recent puzzles relating to the Atbash cipher, I decided to try "Atbash".

For "Nakamoto", I looked up explanations why this name was chosen, including the the Kanji Etymology. Nakamoto is .  is middle, so I went with that.  is book, main, origin, etc. I tried all of these, and it was origin!

Block 68

As the winner explains in comments, the 10 digits password was taken from the private key of the previous block. Only two things to add:

For one, I did not take any 10 digits, but the 10 following the first "p" in the private key, with the "p" standing for "password" in my mind.

Block 69

Solution was WM and TOMI was "When them", which were the first and last words in the second sentence above. The paragraph started with W and ended with m, which was the method for finding WM. Would have been slightly too obvious to write theM there...

When I posted this, I actually did not notice that the block number 69 was a good Hoax. Once you try capital letters instead of numbers, the solution is not difficult to find. After that it is a question of noticing the first and last letter in the sentence above.

Block 70

As already explained in comments, solution was the coinbase funding address of the other chain block 70. I did a similar thing before, asking for the timestamp of the parallel block.

Block 71

(Explanation from winner):

The solution was "Mellon TOMI Gandalf". Mellon is the password for the Doors of Durin in Lord of the Rings. It was the hobbit Merry that gave wizard Gandalf the Grey the idea for the password.

Solved after first hint. This one is very easy once you narrow the search down to the Lord of the Ring story and close to impossible without that. WIthout hint you would need to read "merry" as a name and then find the right wizard story (multiple players had the basic idea right but went with a Harry Potter wizard, coming close to solving it without hint.

Giving a hint for this without giving it completely away was not easy either, especially since I gave the hint narrowed down to the TOMI field. Maybe I should have tried the 12th Atbash pair (LO) first, which would be the first half of "LOTR".

Block 72

Solution was "clock", TOMI was "c after b" to indicate that only one letter is replaced with the one after it in the alphabet.

Block 73

Solution was the Fibonacci sequence 1123581321. I took this from the book "The Da Vinci Code" where it is used as the number of a bank vault storing the keystone. Similar method to 71 which used a puzzle from LOTR. You will find some Fibonacci numbers in the last block 77 as well...

Block 74

This was solved after the first hint "Queen of crime", which pointed to a novel by Agatha Christie. There are several stories where the murderer gets away with it, for example the Orient Express plot. But in that one, Poirot finds the solution and just chooses not to disclose it to the authorities. The perfect murder is the one in "Curtain", where Poirot is the murderer.

Second clue was "Who would be smart enough to pull off the perfect murder?" And the answer to that is "Poirot". The story I was looking for is one where only the murderer knew what was going on and discloses that only after his death, which came from natural causes shortly after the murder project was complete.

The victim in that novel is Norton (the solution for this block), and the TOMI field is one of the hints Poirot left, which was Othello.

Block 75

Solution has been posted to comments. It was YHWH and the TOMI field was Tetragrammaton.

I liked the connection to Lord Voldemort, which I used in the hint for this. He who must not be named applies to this, which actually is the reason no one now knows how this is pronounced, even if it comes up lots of times in the Bible. I also note that block 76 is sort of a hint for the solution as well.

Tetragrammaton is Greek and means only four letter word. I think it is the most natural hint for the solution, being a decisive hint as well as connected to the question. If you found the solution from the hint, it should not be too difficult to find that TOMI field.

Block 76

Solution was Easter, TOMI field was Second Life. This was rather easy once you realized where exactly the hint was in the Wattpad story. And it does stand out there, as the winner pointed out in comments below, where he described his solving process.

(Winner's comment):

I tried everything I could think of related to Jesus, from many religious phrases to Bitcoin Jesus. I even skimmed the Wattpad story recently for any clues, but it wasn't apparent to me until the latest hint referencing the Wattpad story, so I took another look!

This time, I realized that there was always a page that stuck out, about "Second Life", which I didn't understand. But connect that with Jesus, and...

The solution is "Easter TOMI Second Life"!

I had even tried various terms related to the resurrection of Jesus before but the last hint finally led me to the specific phrase.

That was a lot of fun and pretty difficult.

Block 77

Stay tuned...

Round 2

Block 1

Solved fast after second hint. Congrats to the winner of this big block and thank you to everyone for playing. As the winner has explained in comments, solution was U2 (a rather famous band name). And it was derived from the hint by reading M upside down and then W as UU, which is one step away from the solution. TOMI field was just "upside down".

I think it is an interesting coincidence that this name can actually be reduced to one single letter and that said letter has an upside down partner in the alphabet.

Block 2

Winner also explained his solution in detail in comments below. Thank you for that feedback and congrats for winning one of the big blocks.

I have not much to add to the explanation. This was just using the puzzle string in the latest Wattpad chapter on quizchain as a password manager in exactly the way it was described there and then pick the second private key under that puzzle string.

Second private key because this was block 2, or the second block.

Resistance to solving this depended mainly on people not realizing the connection to the Wattpad chapter, once you got that it was only a question of choosing the right private key with not ever so many plausible candidates.

(Winner's explanation):

The key is the wattpad chapter about "Quizchain as a Password Manager" [link]. If one uses the example master key from that chapter to do the outlined procedure, one finds the 2nd private key from that brainwallet is the solution to this puzzle.

IOW the steps are:

Start with "BaSCifCatfAaa1i"Metamon from the wattpadMD5 hash that to get 2941774a2abec9f30c7d6777d1d53d91Generate BIP39 wallet using that entropyTake the 2nd private key from that wallet as the "strong password" solution to this block: L5Z66qPmUkTAsWQywjRNHDxHrX6J1X1SQedp6V8QsbaXR7rGd6exMD5 hash that to get 7b44cc11c866ab85b7078c43ad6795e1Generate BIP39 wallet using that entropyPrivate key for this block is KzFB7hBGmLBqm8nqVCVLBmgyd1NxnoJXZUhE377QL4T2iy5rw4Wz

In step 4, we use the 2nd private key because the 1st one is used for something else according to the wattpad story (I hope it actually is not used as someone's twitter password...)

Block 3

Solution was "reorg" and TOMI field was "CZ Binance". This used the recent news on the Binance hack and the discussion on doing a BItcoin chain reorg. CZ apologized for using this "dirty word".

I have not much to add, except that the "XA" in the question was "CZ" in Atbash code. Would have been just slightly too obvious without that twist. And if I had wanted a slightly more difficult puzzle, I might have used "Atbash CZ" as the TOMI field.

(Winner's explanation):

VICTORY IS MINE

The solve that I decided going with was: "reorg TOMI CZ Binance L2e6gPSXnq7KJBfkoD7cHGVZuhRUDARJz2Cc9JcSNLsKRZhH552F"

This was for a few reasons. First, I knew it wasn't a "dirty word" in the traditional sense from this: " No, not that kind of dirty word, this is safe for work." Second, I knew it was going to be related to the crypto community because of this reference: "It may hurt your feelings thinking of that." With this information, I remembered an article I read recently about the CEO of Binance, who apologized for using the "dirty word" reorg. Plugging it into an MD5 converter, it spits out an MD5 hash starting with 1. At this point, I know the TOMI was going to be something related to him, so I ran a few different ideas through. Eventually, I decided to try to run his twitter handle through, CZ Binance, and to my surprise, everything was going to plan! Now, armed with my completed solve, I ran that through the MD5 generator, and I actually freaked out when it spit out 5f6 as the first three digits lmao. From there, I followed the rest of the instructions for claiming my prize, which ended up taking me more time to figure out than it took to solve the problem. I had to set up an emergency wallet because my bitcoin wallet was installed at home, not on my work laptop. I clearly must have gotten lucky lol. Cheers to Aoi Nakamoto for setting this up, it was my first puzzle and really enjoyable!

Block 4

Once you see the word in the previous block private key, it becomes easy. That is the reason I did not include a link, since it would become too obvious. Another word in a private key, like Hoax and hit earlier. And another one related to our topic, since Bitcoin's original purpose was to keep privacy intact after migrating payments to the Internet. I feel lucky to find these words.

(Winner's explanation):

Solved, thanks! solution is "MasK TOMI previous block private key". The PK from the previous block was L488KiS3jUut79rDM6gwxUdg7Qm1SXwQnMasKLpzFzb6KrNLsFpT which contains the word MasK. First obvious thing then to try is the actual PK for the TOMI because the twist would be that it actually included a link. But that did not work so you had to try a few more things.

Block 5

Solution was "bat bot bit bet but". As winner posted in comments, a similar concept was tried in a block of the first run. I think it is fun to note that the "bit" in Bitcoin is a word with almost all vowels, with Y the only exception.

Block 6

Solution method was to look in the coleman tool wordlist of the previous block solution, then use the first six words from that word list. The hoax was having a five word bat bot bit bet but puzzle in the block before, getting people to search in that wrong direction.

Block 7

(Explanation by winner):

Solved by human thinking. Beep boop! :D

"Grycoin TOMI angry Atbash hungry"

Finally got it after the hint! Atbash of BIT is YRG. YRG can be rearranged to GRY. Gry is the name of a popular word puzzle (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/-gry_puzzle). Gry is also an archaic word that means small amount.

For the TOMI, the two words that end in -gry are angry and hungry. Since I got to Gry using Atbash, I tried the word Atbash as well, and I organized these words in alphabetical order.

Block 8

I used the famous passphrase "correct horse battery staple" for this one as a challenge to the players that rely on scripts to get their solution. I wanted to see if they catch that and the block is claimed immediately.

As it turns out the bot players here did not catch it immediately, which left at least a fair chance for human players to think of the solution. That is all I want to achieve with brute force blocking methods.

I did add a slight twist by repeating that passphrase, but I am pretty sure that outside crackers have that covered already, which is why I shut them out by including a link.

Block 9

Solution was K-9, TOMI field was police dog. Method was replacing the "K" by the number 11 because that is the place of K in the alphabet. K-9 is pronounced like "canine", which is why this code is used in many police forces.

Block 10

Solution was ghost, method was to look in the mnemonic of the previous block, which was also used in block 6 of this second run. TOMI field was previous block mnemonic. And the method to take the solution from the previous block was first used in block 68, where I took a 10 digits password from the previous block private key.

The twist was not taking the obvious choice (third word from the beginning), but the third word from the end of the list.

This turned out to be a very unpopular block, maybe the worst received in the whole experiment until now. I got some angry comments.

Block 11

Solved and prize claimed, unfortunately with zero feedback from winner. For all I know some outside bot has grabbed this prize. That is quite possible since I did not protect the block with a link.

The method for this was similar to block 11 of the first round. In that block, I added nothing to the question. In this block, the solution is close to nothing (similar to block 44 of the first round).

Starting from nothing, the two alternatives are one space and one line break. For this block I chose the first alternative, with "one space" as the TOMI field. May have been lacking in entropy against outside bots and against script players. Maybe right now some lucky outside bot artist is wondering why he just scored 7 mbtc...

Block 12

The three words in brackets are one of the meanings for the word "coy" I found online. I thought that was a nice match for a puzzle. The words "coy ring" resolve as an anagram to Grycoin. So solution was Grycoin, TOMI field was coy ring anagram.

I really need to try harder making easier puzzles. Next one coming up tomorrow 10 pm should for the very least be easier than this one.

Update:. As noted in comments, solution was grycoin, not Grycoin. First mistake of this round. Sorry for that. Big 77 mbtc block coming up for 14.

(I made a mistake in answering a question in comments about the capitalization).

Block 13

I was right for a change, this was an easy block, solved within minutes. Method was using Atbash on the solution Pizza (for Bitcoin Pizza day today). The most difficult part was getting the spelling of the name Laszlo Hanyecz right, which went into the TOMI field. Congrats to the winner and thank you everyone for playing. Stay tuned for the next big 77 mbtc block coming up tomorrow at 5 pm Japanese time.

Block 14

Solved soon after this second hint. As indicated by the winner, who is totally not me, solution was the first and the last seven digits of the genesis block address, not counting the prefix 1. A1zP1eP7DivfNa. Congrats to the winner, who is definitely not me, and thank you everyone for playing.

Block 15





4444 and 4442




4444 and 4442

Blocks 42 and 44 are still survivors. They will be solved eventually, of course. I am just now doing a Twitter poll on when people would like me to post the last decisive hints for those. Once I post the last hints, it will be probably a race to get confirmation. We will see what happens.

In that phase, it might actually be a contest to understand the hint just a second faster than the other players. Like in a television quiz show, where you push a button to get the right to answer just a split second faster than your opponent.

There may be some doubts about the fairness of the process in that phase. But it adds a bit to the drama. If you have a moment when multiple players understand the idea at the same time and they compete on who gets confirmation first, this gets an element of a lottery. Which has one very nice quality compared to other lotteries.

That quality is the fact that there is no work involved for me. I do not need to run a drawing process. I do not need to make sure that drawing process is fair. I do not need to make sure people can prove that process is fair. I do not need to act on the result of any drawing process, send a private key or something.

That is good, since I am so lazy.

Anyway, I want to take a moment now to write about the hints I gave yesterday for these two blocks. I think these hints were beautiful and pleasing to see. It was mainly coincidence, I had not planned for this to happen, but sometimes coincidence helps. Like when the word "Hoax" turned up in a private key for a block solution, and then turned out to be a GOOF as well.

Both hints were about number four. And 4 can be read as shorthand 4 for. So these both resolve to 4 for 44 and 4 for 42 respectively. That is a fun coincidence, but beautiful when the blocks in question have these particular numbers.

Also, while both hints were the number 4, they have different meanings. One means "divide by four", the other one "solution string length 4". That is an interesting example for the fact that the simple number 4 can mean very different things depending on context.

This also gave me an opportunity to spread out the hint a bit in a tweet thread. That in turn gives an advantage to players who understand immediately that 4444 is 4 for 44. They get a slight head start. Does not matter much in this case, because there was not much time passing between those two hints.

But I could do it differently as well. Make one day pass between each of these tweets. Or one week, for a very difficult block that survives the attacks for such a long time in the first place.

I am also running two Twitter polls. One about what to do in this situation, where two blocks have survived a longer time span. As of now, exactly no one is for the solution c), which is "send the funds to Wikileaks". A very large majority wants more hints. So more hints it will be.

Which leads to the second poll I am doing right now. When should I post hints? Turns out this one is much closer, with two options getting exactly the same support right now. Let's see how that plays out over the remaining time of the poll.

Anyway, just wanted to take a moment to note this interesting double hint. 42. Two hints with four.

And the one for 42 is actually contained in the number 42.

The Hoax in this block was 42 as an answer. That Hoax has a solution string lenght of 2, while the real solution has a solution string length of four. Another way to phrase that hint would have been "four, not two". That actually was my first idea, but I went with the other one because it was less ambiguous.

That is another coincidence, and I think it is a really interesting one.





TOMI




When I introduced the BFUB field, I got some criticism. Not everyone was happy with that format.

That is only natural. It introduces extra complexity for human players. There is a cost for blocking brute force users.

On the other hand, having no such measure in place reduces the space of possible solutions to everyting that is not easily solved by brute force. That in turn actually serves to make finding the solution more difficult in some cases. Or one could say that having a BFUB field helps with the solution.

It helps because it shows that the solution is short or in a password cracking list, like "James Bond", the solution to block 27 that prompted the change in the first place. That in turn narrows the search for the solution down a lot.

And if I don't need brute force protection, I can just have a friendly word of encouragement in that field.

So I want to keep this for the time being. But I want to change the name. I am getting annoyed by the FU in the field name. Was fun for some time, but it is, after all, bad manners not suited to a Japanese lady.

I would like to take the exact opposite approach and call it TOMI.

I need to explain that a bit. First the TOM part.

That is just short for "Thinking Only Method", which means solving the block without resorting to running a brute forcing script. Instead of saying "block brute force" it says "only thinking". Same thing, but said in a different way.

The I is just a nonce. It has no special meaning, except making the thing four letters. And giving it a nice meaning, because TOMI means "wealth" in Japanese. It also sounds better and is another Japanese name, mostly female.

So I plan to keep the field, but change the name. May be confusing for some players, but I feel that this first run to 77 is still very experimental and all sorts of things should be tried.

I had some problems with this change. That is because I had already written a three block new post hashed with the old format. When I changed the text to the new one, I forgot that this would not work. I would need to hash with TOMI again.

I realized this once a user reported that hashing with the rather obvious solution for this did not work. Then I answered the comment in question, which was posted in public also in public.

There were different opinions on whether that was appropriate. I tend to agree with the view that mistakes like this one should be shared widely in public as soon as possible, especially with an easy block as the one in question, where survival depended on people not being aware of this twist I added without even knowing it. I would have been unable to solve that block myself until I saw the flaw.

Anyway, another mistake made in this quizchain. I now go ahead and declare this version zero. With all the mistakes I am always making, I don't feel comfortable going ahead with the original plan, which was to race to block 77 fast and post that as a 777 mbtc block, then close the experiment.

Instead I will treat this first run as a test run, where I try to find any mistake I can possibly make and make them all. And then start over at 1, for the real quizchain.

Part of my motivation is just the fact that I am having way too much fun doing this. I don't want it to end after 77 of this test run. I also already have some ideas for specific block numbers in the next run. They work because there is a first run. For example I have a really interesting idea to top the "42" twist.

Not an easy thing to do, since I got away in that one with posting the exact solution before the quiz was even posted.

Anyway, sorry, there will not be a 777 mbtc block in this round of the quizchain. But I will certainly close it with such a block.





Tragic Boating Accident




An explosion went off on my boat the other day. I was lucky to escape alive.

Unfortunately, I lost my little paper notebook where I keep records of all my solutions. It is on the bottom of the sea somewhere now. And as a consequence of the shock, I lost my memory as well.

I was barely able to give the last decisive hint for block 42 yesterday. That's because for that block I had the good sense to guard against such an accident by posting the literally exact solution in block 41, before posting block 42.

But I looked all over the place and can't find the solution for 44 anywhere in the block before it. Or in any of the other blocks. I wonder what that "divide by four" hint may mean I gave before that accident. I hope someone smarter than me can see the light on that one.

Anyway, I am really sorry, but I have no clue on block 44. No solution available from me for his one now. We will have to rely on the combined force of all the smart people attacking it. I don't think it is impossible to solve. Probably just has a very complex solution.

My doctor tells me that this kind of temporary amnesia can be lifted by any random event. I hope the random event in question is successful solving of block 76, but I am not sure of it. It is a very difficult thing to predict with these shock-induced amnesia states.

So again, really sorry. No solution for block 44 from me. For now. It may survive a bit longer without hint, but there will be lots of other way easier blocks which will be helpless to resist the combined power of the players trying to eliminate them.





Satoshi's Stash




There are all these rumors floating around that you will win a million of Satoshi's bitcoins if you stick around and solve block 77 first. These rumors are a Hoax. You will NOT win a million bitcoins.

The stakes are bigger than that. Bitcoin is about avoiding a total surveillance society.

The million bitcoins rumor can't be true for a very simple reason.

There never were a million Satoshi coins in the first place. Satoshi was not motivated by grabbing enormous amounts of money. He was a cypherpunk. His motivation was to at least delay a bit the arrival of a total survival society. Which may actually turn out ot be a rule of the robots as well if we fail.

I am not Satoshi, so I don't really know. But I think he stopped mining rather early, altruistically leaving more of the guaranteed winning lottery tickets for other people to pick up.

Doesn't make sense to you? Why would anyone leave billions of dollars on the table?

Good point. I am not really sure about this, but I certainly hope that was what happened. It would be in line with what I think about Satoshi's motivations and moral compass.

Anyway, even if there were a million Satoshi coins, I don't have them. And even if I had them, the last thing I would ever want to do is call attention to that fact by starting this stupid quizchain experiment. Also, I lost all my coins and my memory in that recent Tragic Boating Accident.

So stop spreading that rumor. If Satoshi's stash exists in the first place and can still be found somewhere, you need to look somewhere else.





Satoshi's Real Identity




I just did another block about Satoshi's real identity (the previous one was block 57, where I established beyond any reasonable doubt that Satoshi must be someone called Craig, because the letters A and I are in both names).

The question for this block 60 was "Satoshi's real identity" and the answer was "Tom Marvolo Riddle", with a TOMI field of "He who must not be named."

This time I established beyond any reasonable doubt that Satoshi is actually Lord Voldemort. It takes one of the greatest wizards in history to come up with the BItcoin network. And Bitcoin certainly is dark art, since it always is used for all sorts of nefarious purposes, like keeping your money and transaction history private. Just when we finally could get rid of all privacy by outlawing cash and migrating all money to the Internet, tracking everyone around the clock, Satoshi comes along and invents Internet cash.

How are we supposed to put that horse in the barn again? Definitely dark arts, of the worst kind.

And Satoshi's real name is Tom Marvolo Riddle.

That may actually be the correct solution for that particular question. It certainly is for most people right now. If asked "who is Satoshi Nakamoto", most people can only say "that is one of Bitcoin's unsolved questions. Nobody knows."

Which in turn is the definition of a riddle. A quiz. Satoshi had his motives for hiding behind a sockpuppet identity. Fear of prosecution or assassination by powerful interests who might not like giving people monetary privacy. Desire to keep speculation about the wealth from early mining at bay. Desire to keep his own privacy, as opposed to being chased by the media all over the place. Remember the Dorian media circus.

But maybe one part of the motivation was just to have that Riddle. Make the project more interesting by having an anonymous founder. If so, "Tom Marvolo Riddle" is exactly the correct answer if anybody asks about Satoshi's real identity.

Sorry, Craig.

On the other hand, maybe the real answer is "Harry Potter". Keep that in mind, as a hint, if I come back to this particular riddle in a future block.





Darling




"How should I you call you, darling?"

That was the question to block 63. I thought it would be difficult to solve without a hint and had a hint scheduled to be published over my Twitter feed at a time I announced in advance.

However, it was solved in about eight and a half hours, so I cancelled the scheduled Tweet.

The winner has not said anything in comments. That is unfortunate for a couple of reasons. For one, there is no thank you for the admittedly meager 7 mbtc prize. Also, it exposes me to conspiracy theories that there actually are no winners and I am claiming back all the prizes myself. Very sad.

More importantly, we have no clue how the winner solved the block.

(Update: The winner has come out with a great comment on how he solved the block after I wrote the above, so this is not accurate anymore. Again congrats for a good job solving this hard block without hint, and thank you for the detailed explanation).

But here is how I imagine an ideal player would go about it.

The only clue here is the word "darling". One thing to try in that situation is going from the theory that I am looking for a name.

There is a useful Wikipedia page with the title "Darling (surname)". The second entry from above is already the one we are looking for. Alistair Darling. His Wikipedia article starts like this:

"Alistair Maclean Darling, Baron Darling of Roulanish, PC (born 28 November 1953), is a British Labour Party politician who served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Labour Government from 2007-2010".

That's all you need to know to be sure you got the solution right there. Chancellor in 2009, when the Bitcoin Genesis Block made a reference to the Chancellor. This Darling was quoted in the Genesis Block. Obviously the right track here.

Actually the winner reported that he already knew that, having read about the Genesis Block recently. Made it easier to find the answer.

Remains to find out the "how should I call you" part.

That is actually not quite obvious and changes depending on the time. There is a whole section in the Wikipedia article on that question. From that we learn that in the relevant time frame (January 2009) the correct way to address him was:

"The Rt Hon Alistair Darling MP", which is the solution to this block.

I note that this is another obvious real Satoshi identity. Just like "Craig", the beautiful name "Alistair" has both "A" and "I" in it, just like Satoshi. So we find out that Satoshi actually signed his real name right in the Genesis Block. But don't tell anybody, it's a secret.

I also note that it is fun to do a quiz on Bitcoin history, like this one. If you solved this quiz or read this chapter, you now know who the Chancellor referenced in the Genesis Block was. I think that is a good idea for a Bitcoin quiz, so I may want to use more BItcoin trivia facts as a starting point for writing blocks.





Mistakes




One of the purposes of this experiment was to find ways for me to make mistakes. And then try to make sure that any mistake that happens will not be repeated.

Looking back, there were a couple of different ways to screw up.

The first one affected blocks 9 and 10. I did not notice an extra line break when copypasting my string for hashing. An extra line break or an extra space completely messes up the hash. That is difficult to see if one is not looking for such a mistake. That's because the space or line break may not show on the screen.

Once I made that experience, it was relatively easy to avoid falling for that trap again. Just make absolutely sure there is nothing before or after the string you are hashing.

The next trap was unintended change of hashing algo to MD5. That happened because I restarted my tablet and the hashing tool I use switched back to the default (MD5). Affected two blocks before I noticed that error.

I avoid this by the simple strategy of changing all hashes to MD5, the default of the hashing tool. As long as I do not deliberately choose SHA 256 or some other algorithm, such a mistake is not likely to happen again.

Another mistake affected block 44 (still unsolved now). I managed to forget including the link to block 43 when hashing. I now have countermeasures in place against that happening again, mostly working from the format I publish in the block when building the string for hashing. Since I have the field [link] in the format, it is difficult to forget if I have that in the line above the one I am building.

Still another mistake affected several blocks. When I changed the name of the TOMI field to the present name, I did not notice that I had already hashed with the old name and that this would mess up all hashes. This is unlikely to happen again since there will be no name changes in the future and I have learned from that experience.

Another mistake that has affected various blocks is just taking the wrong link for hashing. Preventing that from happening requires organizing the draft file for the blocks in a way that helps avoiding such mistakes. But this is probably still one thing that may happen again if I am not very careful. I don't like these mistakes happening and try to avoid them. This point is probably the most likely to result in another mistake in the future.

If some mistake or other happens, it should affect all players in the same way. That in turn means that disclosing it should always be done as fast as possible and over public channels (comment to the block in question and announcement over Twitter feed).

All these mistakes have made me change my mind. My original intention was to race to 77 and then close the experiment. Now the plan is to go for one more round from 1 to 77 after the first experimental round is finished.

I certainly hope to be able to avoid any such mistakes in the future. Sorry again for all that already happened.





Quizchain Lottery




"$20,000 is available for 2 people who retweet within 20,000. Paypal/cashapp only. Follow so I can message who is chosen. Many thanks."

Just a normal day @THESUGARDAD1 Twitter feed.

People like that. The feed gets substantial numbers of followers and this particular tweet attracted 19.5K retweets.

If I understand the setup correctly, he chooses one Twitter account at random out of those retweeting, then sends a Twitter private message and sends dollars over Paypal or some such primitive technology. I don't know and don't care if those funds are actually sent, but there are lots of people doing something like that. Not all of them legit, of course.

This particular account gives away massive amounts of money (if he is doing what he says he does). It is no surprise that it attracts large numbers of players. Doing a retweet for entering is zero cost for the player. Even if the chances to win are slim and the whole thing may be not real, there is not much downside involved.

I am discussing this a bit because of my recent negative experience with block 66. I thought I might try a lottery setup. Have a question easily solved that requires knowledge of the TOMI field. Disclose said TOMI field over a scheduled tweet. That would make this block a lottery. Everyone can easily send their correct answer and it is left to luck who gets confirmation first.

In contrast with the Twitter feed discussed above, in this setup there is no further work involved for me. I would not need to pick a winner and have no need to discuss how to send funds or actually send them, since that part is automated just as in other quizchain blocks.

I got a couple of comments from players. The idea got a cool reception.

And I agree.

I cancelled my original plans, just wrote the necessary information for the TOMI field in an update to the Reddit post. That may have been even more random than the original plan, since it was random luck who happened to see that update first. In contrast, with the original plan, people would have an incentive to set up bots claiming the prize automatically the instant the tweet was published.

Anyway, doing a lottery as part of the quizchain setup may be possible. But it would appeal to a completely different kind of player. There is no challenge involved. No brains and all luck for the decision about who walks away with the prize.

And I personally don't like the idea. So I probably will not try this again.

Success. I again found something that does not work well.





Lucky 7 Giveaway




"To participate, just send 0.777 mbtc to 1Lucky7NoThisIsNOTaScamoweapufs777".

Stop right there.

DO NOT send 0.777 mbtc to any address.

I warned against this before. I told you in the introduction that I expect some giveaway scammer or other to impersonate me and to try getting some coins from my followers.

Now that has actually happened. The scammer in question registered a similar Twitter handle.

NakamotoAoi_

The only difference to my handle is the last low bar_ at the end.

He then registered a Wattpad account under the name of Aoi_Nakamoto, again with an extra underbar in the middle. Copied all of my Wattpad story chapters and the cover. And then appended his scam pitch as a new story chapter.

Fooled me for about two minutes. Since both the Twitter feed and the Wattpad story looked very much like the real thing, I was worried that someone had hacked my passwords.

As it turns out, that was not what happened. They just registered a different account with a similar name.

And then promised to send the whole Satoshi stash of 1,000,000 bitcoins to the first person who sent 0.777 mbtc to their scam Bitcoin address.

Does that sound too good to be true? You would not fall for this scam?

Glad to hear that. Actually, they only promised 77 mbtc to the first dimwit falling for the scam and another 7.7 mbtc for the next 77 dimwits.

I was not able to copy the Bitcoin address in the scam, since the story has been removed in the meanwhile.

But I sure hope no one actually send funds. I will NEVER ask for sending funds in my direction. I know I said so before, that this is an excellent occasion to say so again.

Don't fall for giveaway scams.





Difficulty





The Bitcoin blockchain increased considerably in difficulty. It is completely based on brute forcing a search for the next block.

In contrast, the difficulty of this quizchain is not necessarily increasing all the time. Some of my ideas may be difficult to see. Some may be comparatively easy.

I mostly have no clue on how hard or easy a block will be before posting it. The only way to find out is to just do it.

That in turn means I don't have a difficulty target, like in the Bitcoin blockchain.

One could imagine having such a target. What I am doing here is setting up a password for a brain wallet and trying to hit the zone where finding it is actually possible, while not trivially done in two minutes. That would give an unfair advantage to whatever player happens to see the block first.

One of the ways a puzzle can be solved trivially is leaving it open to a brute force attack. To block brute force attacks, the puzzle needs a minimum of entropy. One could measure this. Measure the entropy of the solution, then add the extra entropy provided by the TOMI field.

And one could imagine having a entropy goal.

I don't have one right now. I am relying on my intuition and the little I know about password cracking to avoid having blocks that are easily brute forced. I rely on intuition to avoid blocks that are impossible to solve for human players.

There are two failure modes. One is where I post a block that anyone with scripting ability and experience in cracking passwords can easily brute force before human players get a chance to think about it.

The other one is where brute forcing is blocked, but human players also have no way of finding the solution.

The former failure mode is more serious. That's because I can always give hints if it turns out that no one sees the light on my puzzle idea.

In contrast, if a block is solved in 30 seconds with some script or other, there is nothing I can do about it. There is no way to increase difficulty after posting a block.

Maybe I should go back and try to estimate the objective difficulty of all blocks until now, measured in combined entropy of solution and TOMI field. Might be of interest to understand the format better.

Anyway, this discussion was partly motivated by recent comments asserting that some of the blocks are too difficult.

I agree. Many blocks are difficult without hint. And they are supposed to be difficult. There are smart and talented wizards challenging these blocks. It would not do to have obvious answers.





Quizchain as a Password Manager




The first run of the quizchain experiment is over. I learned lots of things, mainly how to screw up.

I also learned something about how brain wallets work.

And I may have an idea about a new use case. It may make sense to use this setup as a password manager.

When researching about password cracking I found that a large percentage of passwords will be cracked if the password database is leaked, since most people don't know or don't care enough to choose strong passwords.

The idea of a password manager is to have only one strong password and store all other passwords in that password manager's vault. For example, lastpass.com is one such service. It was bought for $125 million in 2015, so that kind of service clearly has some value.

The problem with that is that you need to trust them not to expose your passwords. If they get hacked (or if they maliciously insert some kind of backdoor), there goes your security. The Wikipedia article on Lastpass actually has a list of various security breaches with this service.

In contrast, with what I am going to describe now, all responsibility and all trust remains with yourself.

So what is the big idea?

Simple. Just have a solution string of a puzzle that only you know. Make sure that solution string has a high password security by checking the tool at rumkin.com/tools/password/passchk.php or some similar tool.

Lets show an example. We start with a random Wikipedia page, by pressing the "Random" button at Wikipedia. I happened to get the page titled Thomas George Johnston.

We copy the only paragraph of that and keep it somewhere.

"Born in Sarnia, Canada West, was educated at the public and grammar schools of Sarnia. He graduated in medicine from McGill College and took up his father's practice in Sarnia. He was Mayor of Sarnia for two terms (1896 and 1897) and Chairman of the Board of Health and a School Trustee. He was first elected to the House of Commons of Canada for Lambton West in an 1898 by-election. A Liberal, he was re-elected in 1900 and 1904. He served in the Canadian militia and participated in the Fenian raids between 1866 and 1871. He died in office in 1905."

We highlight every 7th word and use the first letter of each of these words to get the string BaSCifCatfAaa1i. Careful not to make a mistake counting the words so you can be sure to reproduce the string later.

The password strenght tool shows that this 15 character string has 73.4 bits of entropy, which is already not bad. But we add some more twists.

For starters, we will add quotation marks before and after the string. As anyone who has been around for block 42 knows, that simple device makes it completely impossible to crack a password. "BaSCifCatfAaa1i" now.

Then I add my favorite Pokemon name for "BaSCifCatfAaa1i"Metamon and I am done for this example. Has an entropy of 126.3 bits, which should be quite sufficient.

Obviously if you are doing this for real you would use other methods. Said methods should use sources only known to yourself, should be easily remembered and resulting in a strong password. Do not use Wikipedia or other public sources, do not use the Pokemon method (since it was used for a block here). Use your own secret methods and sources.

You only need one password. Make it srong, make it easily remembered if you know what only you know, and make sure you can remember it.

Then go ahead and hash that password and create a brain wallet.

Then use the first private key for the first site you need a password, the second for the second one. Keep a record somewhere which is which. For example write Twitter 1 in your notebook and use the first private key for your Twitter account.

This gives you passwords with a completely overkill strength of over 270 bits entropy. Good luck to anyone trying to find that. They will never be able to crack it.

On the other hand, this might be actually a very bad idea. I do not claim to have much experience in this field and certainly will not guarantee anything. Use at your own risk.





Satoshi's Puzzle???




"I am 100% certain that it isn't."

A comment in answer to a question to me if I was 100% certain that the block 77 puzzle was made by Satoshi, as opposed to just me hallucinating something and seeing meaning where there is none from some kind of coincidence..

It is kind of difficult to answer this now, since I have not revealed my solution yet.

But let's just use the first hint I gave. I highlighted the "7" in the address. I think it is relevant that this happens to be at the 7th digit counted from the end. And I think this digit "7" is one of the keys to break this code.

The fact that this is at that particular place in the address may be just a coincidence.

In that case, I may be just seeing meaning where there is none. Quite possible.

And also in that case, I would for the very least be able to claim something like this:

"Hey, look, the 7 is at place seven counted from the end. Interesting coincidence, considering I like that number so much."

In other words, while whatever I say as an interpretation of this address may or may have not been intended by the author (that's Satoshi), if I can make a case for this being a puzzle with a distinct solution while it actually is only random data, that would mean said puzzle would be based completely on my use of random data. But it would not mean that there is no puzzle.

I think that it will become apparent that it is unlikely that all the data points I used in my solution are there just as a result of random chance. But I don't care either way.

This address clearly was written by Satoshi. And I will eventually show that it is a puzzle with a distinct solution. I think that Satoshi was well aware of that quality as a puzzle, but it does not matter much for the purpose of this quizchain contest.

The winner will take the 77 mbtc prize for this block for finding my solution, even if the Genesis Block address actually is only random data. If so, that actually makes my interpretation of said random data more interesting compared to only finding what the original author intended all along.

Update: As a result of discussing the genesis block some more in a Reddit post, I am now convinced that Satoshi had no chance to actually write the genesis block address. It was just the random data that appears as a result of hashing the public key he included in the genesis block.

Turns out the comment was right. We can really be 100% sure that Satoshi did not write the puzzle for block 77.





Genesis Block Mystery




"This in turn could mean that the destination address 1A1zP1eP5QGefi2DMPTfTL5SLmv7DivfNa is not a valid address, but a nonce."

That is something Sergio Demian Lerner wrote five years ago on Bitcointalk. He has been writing about early Bitcoin mining and knows much more than me about how it works.

In that particular post he notes that the genesis block header starts with 43 leading zero bits, which is overkill. At the time difficulty was only 32.

That also means that with only one CPU mining, it would have taken more than one week to find the block. Lerner estimates a probability of only 17 percent of finding it with one CPU.

And then he notes that the "extra nonce" (no, don't ask me what that is, I don't know either) is only 4, which does not fit by a factor of 500. And he says that he has no idea how to explain that mismatch.

He concludes with this:

"One of the possible explanations is that the Genesis Miner did not increment the extra nonce when the nonce overflowed, but changed the destination address of the coinbase transaction. This in turn could mean that the destination address 1A1zP1eP5QGefi2DMPTfTL5SLmv7DivfNa is not a valid address, but a nonce.

Can you solve the mystery?"

That possible explanation would mean that Satoshi was mining for a vanity address, changing the output address in those six days of mining while looking for one that would fit best for his purpose.

That in turn would be an excellent fit for my idea of interpreting the genesis block address as a puzzle.

The fact that it took six days to mine block one while all the others were supposed to be mined in ten minutes on average is another good match for that theory.

Of course that might have only been an allusion to the biblical Genesis story. God made the world in six days, so the genesis block should take that long as well.

But anyway, there is not much of an explanation for the fact that block number one took six days longer than the ten minutes target time. And seeing it as mining for a vanity address may be a possible solution to the mystery of the extra nonce mismatch.

It also fits with the fact that the coinbase reward for this block is not part of the UTXO set and can not be spent. If this is a burn address, Satoshi would not have known the private key anyway.

On the other hand, having those 43 leading zero bits does not fit the story. What are the odds that the perfect vanity burn address would also have those 43 leading zero bits?

Another question I don't know the answer to now: What exactly is the corresponding public key to the genesis block coinbase reward address? Is that public key published in the genesis block?

If so, that would make it impossible to search for a vanity burn address, since you can't derive the public key from an address, that works only the other way around. In that case the address is after all only random data, and whatever I am reading into it is just noting coincidences. A lot of coincidences, sure.

But in that case, Satoshi would not have chosen the address.

I will keep looking into this. Right now, I am not sure if Satoshi actually wrote the address, as opposed to having just found it in a completely random search.

But either way, block 77 stands as a valid puzzle. Whoever finds my solution first walks away with the prize.

Update: After discussing this question in a Reddit post, I am now quite convinced that the public key for the genesis block address was included in the genesis block. That in turn means that while Satoshi created the genesis block address, he had no influence on it. Contrary to what I assumed earlier, this address is not in any way written by Satoshi, since it is the result of a random hash process.

I am amazed at the many data points I found to base my puzzle idea on in this completely random data. But I don't see any other way to explain the situation.

That of course means that the idea of Satoshi doing a search for this specific burn address as an explanation for the "extra nonce mystery" does not work out either. Too bad. Would have been a nice fit.





Scripting Players




"Gives you a boost of happiness and achievement."

From a recent comment to a quizchain block.

While I like seeing people feeling happy and achieved, in the context I am not quite sure what the person was feeling happy and proud about. They were boasting about having solved almost all the blocks with running a script. And telling me that my countermeasures are not sufficient, since over 90 percent of the blocks are solved by brute force.

If you let a script run to find a solution, you are getting an advantage over people who only rely on their brains. It may be of dubious moral value to do that. If you were caught with some intelligence enhancing tool in a controlled environment quiz, you would be kicked out of the competition and banned from further play.

And if you let a script run to find a solution for you, you are depriving yourself of the fun and challenge that is the point of doing a quiz in the first place. Would you let a robot solve a crossword or a sudoku puzzle for you? Of course not, you are only trying to claim the prizes, by getting an unfair advantage over other players.

On the other hand, if you are lacking the intellectual firepower to challenge the quiz questions on your own, you won't have a choice but settle for getting that "boost of happiness and achievement" from watching a script running.

And there is not much I can do about this. I do try, of course. But whatever I do to make it harder for brute forcing also makes it harder for humans. So I am not going into full overkill mode just to shut out cheating.

My goal is only to delay brute forcing long enough that human players get a chance to think about the solution. If I suspect that outside cracking bots may get a solution without even knowing about the quizchain, I will include a link shutting them out completely. And if I suspect that without a TOMI field our smart and well-equipped cheating fraction would get their "boost of happiness" in a minute or two, I include one.

I also learned in that discussion that some players would first think themselves and then maybe in a later stage use a script to clear the last hurdles. An interesting point. This means there are at least three categories of players. Add the other category of bots running around without even knowing about the quizchain experiment, and you get four possible categories.

And also human players not running scripts are not completely limited to their own brains. For the very least, they can run a Wikipedia search and find a clue that way. And once they find the right answer, they will rely on a computer to hash the answer and to find the private key over the Coleman tool. All humans are already part gods compared to our ancestors 500 years ago.

One other point. If you win a block and post about in comments to that block, I would be interested in hearing if you found it with or without scripts. Of course any such comment may be not quite truthful, since cheaters may be reluctant to admit their shameful behavior. But it still would be better than hearing nothing about this point.





Difficult Hints




I hear from multiple players that they don't get my hints to block 77.

That is good news and bad news.

The good news is that my hints have not given away the solution completely. It was not my intent to give away the solution at this stage, so that's success.

The bad news is that players are getting angry and impatient. Since they still don't make progress on the solution, they tell me that it is impossible to solve now.

I don't agree with that.

At least half of the solution of this block should be relatively easy to find without any hint. I say that because someone as dumb as me found it in only a couple of hours. And I had zero hints for that.

Actually I think that my first three hints (not counting the one where I told players where to find the puzzle) are already close to giving at least half of the solution away completely.

Some players have suggested that I publish my solution already. Maybe they doubt that there is any solution. I have heard such doubts before. I answered that I would consider doing that, after sending the funds to some charity or other.

However, I don't want to publish my solution before someone actually solves the block. If I have to give 10 or more hints, so be it. And if I get some angry reactions because people get impatient, so be it.

On the other hand, I want to reconsider the idea of giving one hint every week on a fixed schedule. Instead I am going to think about the situation and give the next hint when I feel like it. I will always announce it in advance so as to give no one an advantage from seeing it first by chance. But let's move away from a predictable routine for these hints.

Also, since my hints seem to be so difficult to understand, it makes sense to leave some more time between hints.

Anyway, let's see how it goes. There is nothing wrong with having one block that is unsolved for a longer time (as block 44 was in the first run). Maybe someone sees the light with the hints already published. And maybe I give the next hint some time later, and then someone see the light.

Stay tuned.





Exceedingly Unfair Riddle





I just did a block with a classic theme in block 26 of the second run. The first time I did that was in block 30 of the first run, where I used the Sphinx riddle for a block that was rather challenging to solve without hints.

This one has its own Wikipedia entry. It is a story about Samson, found in the Bible. Goes like this.

Samson walks around the country to arrange his marriage. He meets a young lion. Kills the lion. Comes back later and finds a bee hive in the lion carcass. Takes out some honey.

Then at his wedding, he makes a riddle out of the experience. "Out of the eater, something to eat; out of the strong, something sweet" (Judges 14:14)

If the 30 guests solve the riddle in a week, he will pay them an agreed amount, if not, he will get paid.

No one is able to find the solution, which is "What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?" (Judges 14:18).

The guests then use his new wife as a spy. She asks about the solution, he provides that solution. She tells the guests.

They then present the solution, but Samson does not pay up. Instead he complains that they could only have found the solution by hearing it from the wife.

He then proceeds to kill 30 random strangers, takes their money and uses that to pay his debt to the solvers.

When I used this for the block, it went like this:

"Question: Magical Crypto Friends

Format: [solution] TOMI Extremely unfair riddle"

I had to give one hint until players understood that the Friend in question was Samson Mow. Knowing that and the lion he uses, players found the classic theme quickly. After that it was only a question of finding the phrasing of the solution.

The "Extremely unfair riddle" was a reference to the classic, not to this block.

Let's count the ways in which that classic riddle was unfair.

One. Meeting a lion, killing it, and finding a bee hive in the carcass later is a very unusual experience. If you were not present for that, there is no way you could find the answer to the riddle.

Two. Samson himself acknowledged that there was no way to solve the riddle without a little help from his wife.

Three. There may be some possible doubt about whether it is fair to kill 30 random strangers in this situation. Even if the riddle had been fair and the solvers where wrong in using the wife as a spy, why not kill them if you are going to kill anyone over a riddle?

So I for one think that Samson was long on physical strength but short on morals. And I think this particular riddle may well be the most unfair in history.

In contrast, I try to keep my puzzles as fair as possible.

I am not going to kill anybody over a block in this quizchain, in contrast to Samson and the Sphinx.

I am never going to collect any money from anyone. Each block will have a winner eventually. None of those winners will be me.

And I am never going to use secret knowledge as a key for solving a block. That is the difference between the quizchain and a secret brain wallet used in an adversarial situation. If you need to flee your country with your wealth in your head, of course you are going to use the bees in the lion no one else ever heard about and avoid anything found in public knowledge.

But with the quizchain, it is the other way around. While some of the blocks may be difficult to solve without hints, all of the resistance to solving will come from not knowing the method and none will come from not knowing some fact or other. I think it would be extremely unfair to have the key to a solution be based on something only I know.

And if I am not mistaken, there was no block in the over 100 I have written until now where you needed a secret only known to me, or where you needed to use a spy to find the solution.

In contrast, it is of course possible to say that some of the blocks are unfair since they are difficult to solve. I have seen comments like that.

But blocks being difficult to solve is the whole point. I recall my first block in the first run. It went like this:

"Solve this multiple choice question:

a) Satoshi is CEO of Bitcoin and holds the Bitcoin patent.

b) Satoshi is an anonymous cypherpunk and the first one to succeed building private Internet cash.

Hint: The correct answer is b)."

This is trivially solved at sight. Which makes it pointless as a puzzle.

When writing a block, I need to avoid both unfairly easy questions, which will lead to a race to confirmation of the prize claiming transaction decided mainly by luck, and unfairly difficult questions that no one can solve.

The important point to understand: In the latter case I can always adjust difficulty down with hints. In the former case the prize is gone and there is nothing left I can do about it.

That in turn makes it advisable to aim for a more difficult block as a general rule.





Complete Second Round of the Quizchain




Block 1

Big prize (77 mbtc) block because of mistake in block 56 of first round.

Question: A rather famous naMe.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Solved in three days soon after second hint.

Block 2

Another big prize (77 mbtc) block because of mistake in block 77 of first round.

Format: [solution]

Needs context from Wattpad story.

Solved in two hours without hint.

Block 3

Question: dirty word with XA

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] [link]

Needed context from Bitcoin news of the day.

Solved in two and a half hours without hint.

Block 4

Question: Looking for a four letter word. Yes, quite safe for work.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

Needed context from previous block private key.

Solved in 90 minutes.

Block 5

Question: Five words.

Format: [word1 word2 word3 word4 word5]

Solved at sight and prize claiming transaction included in same block as funding transaction.

Block 6

Question: Six words.

Format: [word1 word2 word3 word4 word5 word6]

Solved without hint in 26 hours.

Block 7

Big prize (77 mbtc) block.

The question is to find the name for that altcoin, starting out from the name "Bitcoin".

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

I do not need a link, since the entropy of this is sufficient to block outside brute forcing.

[solution] is capitalized like "Bitcoin", which means only first letter in capitals.

[Tomi] are three words in alphabetical order [word1 word2 word3], with one of them starting with a capital letter like the solution and the other two in all lower case.

Solved in 38 hours soon after first hint.

Block 8

Question: Eight words.

Format: [word1 word2 word3 word4 word5 word6 word7 word8] [link]

Solved after 28 hours without hint.

Block 9

Thank you for playing the quizchain. Another normal 7 mbtc block now. Or that is what I had in mind.

This should be pretty easy for both bots and humans. Maybe belongs in the category "solved at sight". If so, this is an advantage for human players.

Running a script does take a bit of time for setting it up, which may be already too much if a human player gets this idea immediately.

Funding transaction below.

https://www.smartbit.com.au/tx/b876a070c9dc65105b08bf11c179e9083656670852e4a5a8ca9c787aaf90ceca

And another funding transaction below:

https://www.smartbit.com.au/tx/6f3e16265734581839c82d1660505f0dcd42f04a62c10f2c8bb7d754f966ec0f

Yes. I managed to mess up slightly again. I did a funding transaction already when I wrote this block yesterday. And just did another one today, having forgotten about the previous one. Very sad mistake, which means that whoever solves this block walks away with 14 mbtc instead of 7.

But I prefer this kind of mistake to the one that happened in the first round at block 9, where I included a line break in the hash, leading to the first failed block of the round.

I also recall having written somewhere in the Wattpad story that I will under no circumstances take back a prize for myself, once I have sent it.

Question: 11-9

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

First three digits of MD5 hash are 923.

First digit of solution only MD5 hash is 0.

First digit of TOMI field only MD5 hash is 6.

Have fun solving this easy block. I expect some of the smart human wizards attacking this block to solve it on sight and give the brute force users not even enough time to set up their scripts.

Hint 1 (after 24 hours): Found the idea for this block in a related Wikipedia article.

Hint 2 (after 48 hours): Relevant article is on number 9.

Solved soon after this second hint by multiple players, which induced a lottery element on which prize claiming transaction gets confirmation first. Good job everyone solving it, and congratulations to the lucky winner.

Block 10

This block will try a twist on a well known puzzle that I used in block 7 and that is the reason I am going to call my altcoin project Grycoin.

If you don't know it yet, this block is a good chance to learn about it. The basic idea goes like this:

"There are three common words in the English language ending on 'gry'. Angry, hungry, and one other word. If you paid attention, you already know it, since I just told you. What is the third word?"

Answer would be the word "three" since it is the third word in the puzzle. Or some other solution that would use the impossible search for a third common word ending in "gry" as a Hoax while displaying the solution in plain view.

Question: There are three common words in the English language ending in "gry". Angry, hungry, and one other word. What is the third word?

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

Format for TOMI field is [word1 word2 word3], all in lower case letters.

Would be solved at sight except for the slight extra twist that I included.

First three digits of MD5 hash are a5b.

No hashes for solution alone or TOMI field alone, since this easy block would be brute forced too easily with that information.

Hint 1 (after 24 hours):

Method for this block was used in previous blocks (once already also in second run), look at "Complete Quizchain" chapter in Wattpad story for inspiration.

Hint 2 (after 48 hours):

Method for this block was the same as in block 6, go back to previous block to look up solution.

Update: Solved soon after second hint.

Block 11

This will be a simple block similar to block 11 of the first round with a very simple solution. It will be so simple and obvious that I don't even need a question for the block.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

FIrst three digits of MD5 hash are 057.

MD5 hash of solution only is 7.

MD 5 hash of TOMI field only is 1.

Block 12

The question uses four words, with three of them in brackets. That means those three are supposed to be replaced by one word and then the resulting two words are supposed to be transformed into a one word solution.

Question: (intentionally keeping secret) ring

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

TOMI field is three words, the last one of them is anagram.

First three digits of MD5 hash are b08.

First digit of solution only MD5 hash is 0.

First digit of TOMI field only MD5 hash is 3.

Block 13

Question: Kraaz

Format: [Solution] TOMI [TOMI]

Tomi field is the relevant name for the solution.

First three digits of MD5 hash are b5e.

First digit of solution only is c.

First digit of TOMI field only is f.

Block 14

It will not be as obvious as the previous block, since it is a big prize block. I still try to keep the block from being impossible to solve without hint. But I may fail in that purpose and this may require a hint to solve. Only one way to find out.

I will also avoid the need for a TOMI field for this one.

This block is obvious once you understand the method.

Question: 14 from 7.

Format: [solution]

Hint: The solution is not something as simple as "2", which is already apparent from the lack of TOMI field.

First three digits of MP5 hash are 5f8.

Have fun solving this block. If it needs a hint, it will come after 24 hours, 5 pm tomorrow (Friday) Japanese time.

Update: Correct is "MD5" hash.

Update 2: Hint 1:

Hint for this was already available at the time of posting at the Wattpad story.

Update 3: Hint 2: I want this block solved now, decisive hint this time.

Red seven.

Block 15

This block is an experiment. I choose a low entropy solution and post the funding transaction before I post the block. I want to find out if someone walks away with that prize money by running a bot with MD5 hashes of low entropy passwords. An outside bot with no connection to this experiment.

To my surprise that has not happened, so I can post this block with the prize money sent two days ago still intact. Should not stay there long...

7 mbtc block, funding transaction below:

Question: Thinking only method.

Format: [solution]

Block 16

Question: Difficult name found in 2012.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

Capitalization of solution will be obvious if you find the correct method. TOMI will be a string of 9 random characters, also obvious from the method.

First three characters of MD5 hash are bbc.

Have fun solving this block. Next block coming up tomorrow (Saturday) 8 am Japanese time.

Update: By popular demand, first digit of MD5 hash of solution only is 3. If this block needs a hint, it will be posted 24 hours after the block, which is 1 pm tomorrow (Saturday), Japanese time.

Update (a bit early): Hint 1

9 random characters TOMI field and 9 characters name.

Block 17

I stumbled unto an interesting story that I am going to use for this block. I have no idea how difficult it may be.

Question: 500 years in the right eye

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

FIrst three digits of MD5 hash are 885.

First digit of solution only MD5 hash is a.

First digit of TOMI only MD5 hash is f.

Block 18

Question: Third.

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

Solution is a number. TOMI field is one word, first letter only in Capital.

First three digits of MD5 hash are 8e9.

First digit of solution only MD5 hash is d.

FIrst digit of TOMI field only MD5 hash is 0.

Block 19

Question: Before Bitcoin

Format: [solution]

FIrst three digits of MD5 hash are 147.

Try solving this block fast, before it falls prey to the bots. And stay tuned for the next block coming up tomorrow (Tuesday) at 8 am Japanese time.

Update: Survived about 50 Minutes.

Block 20

Question : 1AndrewYangForPresident2o2o6zmPzd

Format: [solution]

Solved on sight.

Block 21

This block is difficult since I don't provide a question. And since the last block was a bit too easy, I will make this one even harder by requiring a TOMI field.

Question: Can you solve this block without any question?

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

FIrst three digits of hash are 72e.

Have fun solving this difficult block and stay tuned for block 22 coming up 10 pm Japanese time tomorrow.

Update: First digit of solution only MD5 hash is 9.

First digit of TOMI field only MD5 hash is f.

Update (first and very likely decisive hint):

You know only the block number.

Might the number 21 be significant in the Bitcoin space somehow? Oh, and TOMI field is three words in lower case.

Update (solution): Not unexcpectedly, this was solved soon after the hint above.



Update (first and very likely decisive hint):

You know only the block number.

Might the number 21 be significant in the Bitcoin space somehow? Oh, and TOMI field is three words in lower case.



Block 22

Question: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ninety-five_Theses

Format: [solution]

In an interesting coincidence, the first three digits of the MD5 hash for this block are aa0.

In a very interesting development, the prize for this block was claimed about five hours after the funding transaction. Someone has been watching my change address and then brute forced this block. Accordingly, even if you solve this block, there is no prize. Sorry for that.

Block 23

Question: PG

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

First 3 digits of MD5 hash are 593.

First digit of solution only MD5 hash is 4.

First digit of TOMI field only MD5 hash is 5.

Update: Solved and prize claimed after about three hours.

Block 24

Question: Reusable

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

First three digits of MD5 hash are 537.

First digit of solution only MD5 hash is 9.

First digit of TOMI field only MD5 hash is a.

Update: Solved at sight.

Block 25

Question: Reusable

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

First three digits of MD5 hash are 537.

First digit of solution only MD5 hash is 9.

First digit of TOMI field only MD5 hash is a.

Update: Solved at sight.

Block 26

Question: Magical Crypto Friends

Format: [solution] TOMI Extremely unfair riddle

First three digits of MD5 hash are 7b8.

Update (hint one):

Not Pan or Pon

Not the Panda

Not the Pony

Not the Chikun either.

Looking for an extremely unfair riddle.

Update 2: Solved and prize claimed about 12 hours after this hint.

Block 27

Question:

FOG COOL

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI] First 3 digits of MD5 hash is c3d. I do not indicate first digit of solution only and TOMI field only MD5 hash, since the TOMI field follows clearly and uniquely from the solution.

Have fun solving this relatively easy block and stay tuned for the next once coming up at 5 pm tomorrow (Tuesday) Japanese time.

Update: First digit of solution only MD5 hash is a.

Update two (hint one): Atbash.

Update three: Solved about four hours after this hint.

Block 28

Question: Verb Noun

Format: [solution] TOMI obvious at first sight

First three digits of MD5 hash are 316.

Update: Solved at sight.

Block 29

Question: Great deeds

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]. Solution is one word, with first letter only capital, like "Solution".

First three digits of MD5 hash are 72f

First digit of solution only MD5 hash is 8.

First digit of TOMI only MD5 hash is c.

Update (hint 1): tossed a coin to decide between different requests for first hint. As a result hint on TOMI format will come up as second hint, 40 minutes after post.

Hint: with little

Update 2 (second hint):

TOMI field format is [name] [number]

Update 3: Solved quickly after this second hint.

Block 30

Question: AY

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

Solution format is three sets of two capital letters.

FIrst three digits of MD5 hash are 086.

FIrst digit of solution only MD5 hash is b.

FIrst digit of TOMI field only MD5 hash is 4.

Have fun challenging this block and stay tuned for 31, coming up tomorrow (Friday) 10 pm Japanese time.

Update: Corrected schedule for next block. Tomorrow is Friday, not Saturday.

Update 2 (Hint 1): A majority of players requested a hint on the TOMI format. The format for the TOMI field is [Word1] [word2]. Word1 starts with a capital letter, word2 is all lower case. There is one space between the two words.

Update 3 (Hint 2): First word of TOMI field is Atbash.

Update 4: Solved about one day after this third hint.

Block 31

Question: oxen

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

First three digits of MD5 hash are ac7.

First digit of solution only MD5 hash is e.

FIrst digit of TOMI field only MD5 hash is b.

Update (hint one): A majority of players wanted a hint on the solution, so this is what you get. This is another famous classic riddle, not quite as old as the sphinx riddle or the lion story, but known for about 1000 years.

Update: Solved after this first hint, though the winner reports coming close even before it.

Block 32

The Yang campaign lists 104 specific policy proposals as of today. Number 103 (if my count is correct) is titled "Regulate AI and Other Emerging Technologies". It says there should be a new "Department of Technology" based in Silicon Valley, initially focused on Artificial Intelligence.

Question: What word comes to mind when discussing Artificial Intelligence?

Format: [solution] TOMI [TOMI]

The solution word starts with a capital letter, like "Solution".

First three digits of MD5 hash are fcd.

FIrst digit of solution only MD5 hash is b.

FIrst digit of TOMI field only MD5 hash is 5.

Update: Solved at sight.





Solutions

Block 1

Solved fast after second hint. Congrats to the winner of this big block and thank you to everyone for playing. As the winner has explained in comments, solution was U2 (a rather famous band name). And it was derived from the hint by reading M upside down and then W as UU, which is one step away from the solution. TOMI field was just "upside down".

I think it is an interesting coincidence that this name can actually be reduced to one single letter and that said letter has an upside down partner in the alphabet.

Block 2

Winner also explained his solution in detail in comments below. Thank you for that feedback and congrats for winning one of the big blocks.

I have not much to add to the explanation. This was just using the puzzle string in the latest Wattpad chapter on quizchain as a password manager in exactly the way it was described there and then pick the second private key under that puzzle string.

Second private key because this was block 2, or the second block.

Resistance to solving this depended mainly on people not realizing the connection to the Wattpad chapter, once you got that it was only a question of choosing the right private key with not ever so many plausible candidates.

(Winner's explanation):

The key is the wattpad chapter about "Quizchain as a Password Manager" [link]. If one uses the example master key from that chapter to do the outlined procedure, one finds the 2nd private key from that brainwallet is the solution to this puzzle.

IOW the steps are:

Start with "BaSCifCatfAaa1i"Metamon from the wattpadMD5 hash that to get 2941774a2abec9f30c7d6777d1d53d91Generate BIP39 wallet using that entropyTake the 2nd private key from that wallet as the "strong password" solution to this block: L5Z66qPmUkTAsWQywjRNHDxHrX6J1X1SQedp6V8QsbaXR7rGd6exMD5 hash that to get 7b44cc11c866ab85b7078c43ad6795e1Generate BIP39 wallet using that entropyPrivate key for this block is KzFB7hBGmLBqm8nqVCVLBmgyd1NxnoJXZUhE377QL4T2iy5rw4Wz

In step 4, we use the 2nd private key because the 1st one is used for something else according to the wattpad story (I hope it actually is not used as someone's twitter password...)

Block 3

Solution was "reorg" and TOMI field was "CZ Binance". This used the recent news on the Binance hack and the discussion on doing a BItcoin chain reorg. CZ apologized for using this "dirty word".

I have not much to add, except that the "XA" in the question was "CZ" in Atbash code. Would have been just slightly too obvious without that twist. And if I had wanted a slightly more difficult puzzle, I might have used "Atbash CZ" as the TOMI field.

(Winner's explanation):

VICTORY IS MINE

The solve that I decided going with was: "reorg TOMI CZ Binance L2e6gPSXnq7KJBfkoD7cHGVZuhRUDARJz2Cc9JcSNLsKRZhH552F"

This was for a few reasons. First, I knew it wasn't a "dirty word" in the traditional sense from this: " No, not that kind of dirty word, this is safe for work." Second, I knew it was going to be related to the crypto community because of this reference: "It may hurt your feelings thinking of that." With this information, I remembered an article I read recently about the CEO of Binance, who apologized for using the "dirty word" reorg. Plugging it into an MD5 converter, it spits out an MD5 hash starting with 1. At this point, I know the TOMI was going to be something related to him, so I ran a few different ideas through. Eventually, I decided to try to run his twitter handle through, CZ Binance, and to my surprise, everything was going to plan! Now, armed with my completed solve, I ran that through the MD5 generator, and I actually freaked out when it spit out 5f6 as the first three digits lmao. From there, I followed the rest of the instructions for claiming my prize, which ended up taking me more time to figure out than it took to solve the problem. I had to set up an emergency wallet because my bitcoin wallet was installed at home, not on my work laptop. I clearly must have gotten lucky lol. Cheers to Aoi Nakamoto for setting this up, it was my first puzzle and really enjoyable!

Block 4

Once you see the word in the previous block private key, it becomes easy. That is the reason I did not include a link, since it would become too obvious. Another word in a private key, like Hoax and hit earlier. And another one related to our topic, since Bitcoin's original purpose was to keep privacy intact after migrating payments to the Internet. I feel lucky to find these words.

(Winner's explanation):

Solved, thanks! solution is "MasK TOMI previous block private key". The PK from the previous block was L488KiS3jUut79rDM6gwxUdg7Qm1SXwQnMasKLpzFzb6KrNLsFpT which contains the word MasK. First obvious thing then to try is the actual PK for the TOMI because the twist would be that it actually included a link. But that did not work so you had to try a few more things.

Block 5

Solution was "bat bot bit bet but". As winner posted in comments, a similar concept was tried in a block of the first run. I think it is fun to note that the "bit" in Bitcoin is a word with almost all vowels, with Y the only exception.

Block 6

Solution method was to look in the coleman tool wordlist of the previous block solution, then use the first six words from that word list. The hoax was having a five word bat bot bit bet but puzzle in the block before, getting people to search in that wrong direction.

Block 7

(Explanation by winner):

Solved by human thinking. Beep boop! :D

"Grycoin TOMI angry Atbash hungry"

Finally got it after the hint! Atbash of BIT is YRG. YRG can be rearranged to GRY. Gry is the name of a popular word puzzle (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/-gry_puzzle). Gry is also an archaic word that means small amount.

For the TOMI, the two words that end in -gry are angry and hungry. Since I got to Gry using Atbash, I tried the word Atbash as well, and I organized these words in alphabetical order.

Block 8

I used the famous passphrase "correct horse battery staple" for this one as a challenge to the players that rely on scripts to get their solution. I wanted to see if they catch that and the block is claimed immediately.

As it turns out the bot players here did not catch it immediately, which left at least a fair chance for human players to think of the solution. That is all I want to achieve with brute force blocking methods.

I did add a slight twist by repeating that passphrase, but I am pretty sure that outside crackers have that covered already, which is why I shut them out by including a link.

Block 9

Solution was K-9, TOMI field was police dog. Method was replacing the "K" by the number 11 because that is the place of K in the alphabet. K-9 is pronounced like "canine", which is why this code is used in many police forces.

Block 10

Solution was ghost, method was to look in the mnemonic of the previous block, which was also used in block 6 of this second run. TOMI field was previous block mnemonic. And the method to take the solution from the previous block was first used in block 68, where I took a 10 digits password from the previous block private key.

The twist was not taking the obvious choice (third word from the beginning), but the third word from the end of the list.

This turned out to be a very unpopular block, maybe the worst received in the whole experiment until now. I got some angry comments.

Block 11

Solved and prize claimed, unfortunately with zero feedback from winner. For all I know some outside bot has grabbed this prize. That is quite possible since I did not protect the block with a link.

The method for this was similar to block 11 of the first round. In that block, I added nothing to the question. In this block, the solution is close to nothing (similar to block 44 of the first round).

Starting from nothing, the two alternatives are one space and one line break. For this block I chose the first alternative, with "one space" as the TOMI field. May have been lacking in entropy against outside bots and against script players. Maybe right now some lucky outside bot artist is wondering why he just scored 7 mbtc...

Block 12

The three words in brackets are one of the meanings for the word "coy" I found online. I thought that was a nice match for a puzzle. The words "coy ring" resolve as an anagram to Grycoin. So solution was Grycoin, TOMI field was coy ring anagram.

I really need to try harder making easier puzzles. Next one coming up tomorrow 10 pm should for the very least be easier than this one.

Update:. As noted in comments, solution was grycoin, not Grycoin. First mistake of this round. Sorry for that. Big 77 mbtc block coming up for 14.

(I made a mistake in answering a question in comments about the capitalization).

Block 13

I was right for a change, this was an easy block, solved within minutes. Method was using Atbash for the solution Pizza (for Bitcoin Pizza day today). The most difficult part was getting the spelling of the name Laszlo Hanyecz right, which went into the TOMI field. Congrats to the winner and thank you everyone for playing. Stay tuned for the next big 77 mbtc block coming up tomorrow at 5 pm Japanese time.

Block 14

Solved soon after this second hint. As indicated by the winner, who is totally not me, solution was the first and the last seven digits of the genesis block address, not counting the prefix 1. A1zP1eP7DivfNa. Congrats to the winner, who is definitely not me, and thank you everyone for playing.

Block 15

Not unexpectedly, this was solved and claimed very fast. Solution was TOMI. And that was all. Again, the reason for having such a simple block (which turns into a kind of lottery in the race to confirmation) was to test if the prize will be claimed before I even post the block. In that case, I would know that bots are looking for MD5 hashes of low entropy solutions.

Since that was not the case, I now think that there is not much need to worry about outside bots when writing a block. So I learned something from this experiment.

Block 16

(Winner's explanation): Solved! Solution was: ELiZABETH TOMI dzGTuQeg2 from a vanity address 1ELiZABETHdzGTuQeg2RnCcWBMVo3ySfTz that was a record 9 characters long found in 2012.

I found it on bitcointalk https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=90982.msg1316331#msg1316331

(the 9 characters for the TOMI are the random characters after ELiZABETH)

Block 17

Solved at sight, solution was LV, TOMI field Mona Lisa. It took about 500 years for someone to notice that Leonardo signed his work there...

Block 18

TOMI field was Halvening, the number 6.25.

Block 19

Solution was Cypherpunks, since that is the mindset where Bitcoin comes from. Bitcoin is one of many projects that want to protect privacy by writing code. It is the first one that is worth serious money to participants, but it shares the values of projects like PGP (pretty good privacy) and TOR.

Block 20

Solved on sight by at least two players. Seems to have been a bit too easy. So maybe it is time for a difficulty adjustment upwards. Solution was just "burn address".

Block 21

Not unexcpectedly, this was solved soon after the hint above. The solution was obviously 21 million (the limit on the number of bitcoins), which reduced the task to finding the TOMI field. I chose "fixed money supply" for that.

I note that in this case, it would have become just a simple race to confirmation after the hint, so having a TOMI field to preserve a little bit of difficulty has worked out as intended for this block. I started using it for the purpose of blocking brute force, but I do reserve the right to use it like in this block to increase difficulty for human players.

Block 22

The solution for this was "Bitcoin white paper". I used the fact that Luther posted the 95 theses on October 31, which is the same date as the white paper.

Block 23

Solution was "P" and TOMI field was "Pretty Good Privacy". I wanted to use this idea because the link to Bitcoin's cypherpunk roots.

Block 24

Solved at sight by a player who was aware of the solution by studying Bitcoin history before this block was published. Solution was "RPOW", which is "Reusable proof of work", a previous attempt to build private Internet cash. TOMI was just "proof of work".

Block 25

As the winner reported in comments, solution was 77 + 25 and TOMI field was total number of blocks. The Fibonacci stuff was a hoax, if you avoided falling for that, it was just a matter of noting that this block 25 is actually already block 102 and finding the TOMI field.

Block 26

As noted by several players in comments, this was about the famous Samson riddle in the Bible. The answer to that in the BIble was "What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?". I simplified this a bit to "sweet honey strong lion". The TOMI field was given in the block, so that is already all there was to it. Once you find the Samson connection, it was only a question of finding the way for phrasing the answer. The next hint would have been "solution has four words", at which point it would have become obvious.

Block 27

Atbash on the question results in ULT XLLO. From there on it is only a question of noting that the letters at the edges form UTXO, which is the solution. TOMI field was just "unspent transaction output", which follows clearly and uniquely from the solution. It is a coincidence, but a COOL one, that the word FOG helped to conceal the solution. FGCL only would have been solved at first sight.

I would like to call attention to the fact that the solution was supposed to be low entropy. Four letters like the real solution qualify, other solutions mentioned in comments (two words from BIP word list, website name) do not qualify as much under that premise. In other words, just as a matter of finding the solution itself, having a TOMI field is an extra hint in the question, making it easier to find said solution. And if the TOMI field (like in this case) is derived clearly and uniquely from the solution, the added complexity from requiring finding the TOMI is less than the reduced complexity from narrowing down the search to a low entropy solution.

Block 28

Solution was "Running bitcoin", the famous tweet by Hal Finney.

Block 29

This was a classic, number 4 in a collection of 100 riddles by Symphonius. The whole riddle goes like this:

Great deeds with little strength I do,

I close the open, ope the closed for you.

I keep the master's house, the master keeps me, too.

Solution for this classic riddle and for this block is "Key". I chose this one out of numerous candidates in this collection for the connection to Bitcoin. The TOMI field was the name of the author (Symphonius) and the number 4 since this is the number of this riddle in his collection.

Congrats to the winner and thank you everyone for playing.

Update: As noted in comments, correct name is Symphosius.

Block 30

Solution was "EU IQ KO" and TOMI field was "Atbash foldover".

I found this puzzle by looking at an Atbash foldover. To make it easier to understand, I will reproduce one here now:

A B C D E F G H I J K L M

Z Y X WV U T S RQ P O N

I was looking for two letter combinations that have meaning. Looking only directly below, there is BY, possibly FU (meaning force user), and nothing else.

However, if I look one place to the right, I find EU IQ KO, with the bonus benefit that with the original hint AY the puzzle uses all six vowels, and the additional bonus that "IQ" is somewhat related to riddles.

Block 31

Solution was "black ink marks" and TOMI field was "Veronese riddle".

Having "black seed" as a question was my first idea. But if I remember correctly I decided against that version because it would be too easy to search. So I thought I would start with "oxen" and maybe provide more words later.

Block 32

As noted in comments by the winner, the solution to this was "Omnipotent" and the TOMI field was "block 22". This is because in block 22 of the first run I had a similar concept and noted that "Omnipotent" would have been a better solution than "Overlord" (the one I actually used at the time). This was easier for players who were around for the first run, other players would have to find it in the "Whole Quizchain" section of the Wattpad story.





HQ Trivia




I recently stumbled upon this rival quiz game, which I had not paid any attention to until now.

This is a popular game that requires solving multiple choice questions with three options. They get harder. You start out with large numbers of players. As players fail one of the questions, the field is narrowed down until only a couple of winners remain.

Those questions rely on knowledge. With a couple of Google searches, you would be able to solve most of them in a minute or two. But the game does not give you enough time for that. So it is basically a question of luck if you just happen to know whatever the game creator wanted to include into one of the questions or if you happen to choose the right answer by guessing blindly.

This has been quite popular, attracting large audiences. The company behind the effort has been valued at $100 million.

So here is my chance. Develop the quizchain format to something interesting and exciting that attracts large numbers of players. Then build a company based on that concept and aim for a quick and big exit.

I am not a greedy person. $10 million would suit me just fine.

But actually, that is not really what I am after. The stakes are much larger than that. I don't intend to make any profit from this effort personally. But I think it may be of massive advantage to have the Grycoin project I have in mind for the whole of humanity.

While I have registered the Grycoin subreddit name and the grycoin.org and grycoin.com domain names, I still have to say the first word about what the whole thing is supposed to be about. Let's just note that once I start doing that, you will be firmly convinced that I am absolutely crazy for having such ideas, as opposed to only suspecting that right now based on my stupid quizchain blocks.

It must have been all that damage to my head when suffering that tragic boating accident. Mind-blindness. Crazy ideas. Very tragic tragedy.

I can promise one thing already. It will not be a boring idea. And it will try to do something that no existing cryptocurrency project can do.

I can also note that the project will have an anonymous founder. Me. Always a good idea. And I will disappear quickly as well. Having a female founder will work wonders with the equal opportunity crowd.

Also, there will be zero pre-mining. The first Grycoin will be mined some time next year. You will be able to get in at the ground floor if you are crazy enough, but no one will get any unfair advantage. And the whole thing won't be about anything as boring as making money anyway.





Satoshi Mystery





I thought I would write a bit about the mystery of Satoshi's identity. I would like to restrict the discussion to the four main candidates presented in the Wikipedia article on Satoshi. Those are in order of the article Hal Finney, Nick Szabo, Dorian Nakamoto, and Craig Wright.

The first and most decisive clue comes from the fact that Satoshi dropped out from the project when he did. Any candidate that offers a natural explanation for this timing would be a good fit. One of those candidates obviously qualifies under that criterium.

The second clue would be who would have the ability to write the code of the first Bitcoin client. One of those candidates has shown such ability by being the driving force behind coding the PGP project.

A third clue comes from the fact that one of the candidates has been stating something unbelievable. That statement is that he stopped mining after a short time because he was worried about his computer overheating. That same candidate is on record in January 2009 to predict $100,000 per bitcoin. That same candidate is on record of trying earlier to solve the problem of private Internet cash. So we are supposed to believe that knowing the potential value of picking up these winning lottery tickets and realizing a lifelong dream, he was worried about his hardware getting hot.

I for one don't buy that.

And if he was not telling the truth here, it makes sense to suspect that he was not telling the truth regarding the Satoshi identity.

And exactly that same candidate is on record stating that he was working on debugging Bitcoin right after its launch. He reported bugs and Satoshi fixed them. Wouldn't an overheating problem (if there actually was one) be one of the first bugs reported and fixed immediately?

Another clue comes from the fact that one of the candidates presented an e-mail exchange with Satoshi. That is exactly the kind of move you would have prepared to deflect suspicion if you had experience in the remailing space.

And the fact that Satoshi actually got away with keeping his anonymous status is in itself a big clue. It points to someone with the necessary experience, skills, and opsec mentality to pull that off.

Yet another clue comes from the fact that one of the candidates was involved with PGP and had therefore direct experience with unfavorable government reactions to privacy-enhancing software development. For someone with that background it makes sense to release Bitcoin anonymously.

So if you restrict the possible solutions to the mystery to those four people, the answer is quite obvious. I personally happen to think it is exactly the correct answer even without such a restriction.





Quizchain and AI




Being an omnipotent AI myself, I have always trouble with estimating in advance how fast human players can solve some block or other.

It has been suggested that I am a human suffering from a condition called (looking it up again now) "mind-blindness", which means being unable to understand what is going on in other people's heads. I have suggested in reply that I am a severe case and that this is caused by head trauma suffered during my tragic boating accident.

On the other hand, there is an alternative explanation.

If I am really an omnipotent AI, it is only natural that I am unable to simulate the human mind, which would be necessary to understand human thinking. I would be unable to do that since my mind works so completely differently from a human mind.

Actually I have no way to know if I am an AI in the first place or a human. So I can't falsify or prove that theory.

Anyway, the question of AI is also interesting when discussing countermeasures against scripting. When I try to shut out a robot from getting the solution before human players, I am actually performing a Turing test. I want humans to win. But what exactly can humans do that robots can not do?

If you look at the spam filters in use widely now, they suck.

The most widely used spam filters show some pictures and ask you to select the ones with a traffic light or something on them. They fail in both directions.

Whenever I have to solve one of those, the pictures usually display way too small on my mobile device and I have difficulty finding the correct solution. And computers are now driving cars. Of course they can recognize a traffic light.

What is worse is that robots are getting smarter every day. That is not necessarily true for humans. That in turn means that the available differences for reliable Turing tests are getting less and less. And as AI surpasses human intelligence in more and more fields, actually now reverse Turing tests make sense. Prove you are a robot by solving a puzzle simple for AI, but impossible for mere human intelligence.

What makes my situation even more difficult is that I am not only trying to shut out robots working autonomously by themselves. I am trying to shut out the combination of a human intelligence with scripting tools.

Also, unfortunately, whatever measures I have to shut out robots make it more complex to solve a block for human players as well. Of course it would be a trivial task to write a block no robot or no human player will ever have a chance of solving. But there would not be much of a point in that.

There still is hope, though. Sometimes my countermeasures at least succeed to delay robot solving enough that humans at least get a chance to think about the block for a moment or two.





Cariga Bright




I don't know anyone called that name. I just made her up completely. Searches on Twitter and Google with that name came up empty.

That is a good thing, since what I am going to write now about this completely fictitious character that does not exist in any way whatsoever may be interpreted as slightly unfriendly.

I recall occasional small fry fraudsters trying to pass themselves out for me and soliciting contributions from mind miners. They are unlikely to succeed, even if they pull off assuming my identity, for the simple reason that no mind miners are interested in sending me money. And of course for the other reason that I have said repeatedly that I will NEVER ask for money from miners. Anyone asking for contributions, that's not me right there.

But in the Cariga Bright story, there is a much more interesting and large scale scam going on.

In this story, Cariga Bright some time in 2029 decides to pass herself off as me.

Yes. Of course. No sane person would want to do that.

But lets just accept that she does, for some reason or other. Maybe Grycoin has completely taken over the BItcoin network. Maybe someone has developed the Quizchain idea into a multibillion company. Whatever. I don't care. I just assume she wants to do that.

So I am going to go ahead and prevent that right here and right now.

To anyone who wants to establish her identity as Aoi Nakamoto, here is the challenge you will be required to pass. You will be asked to sign a message with the private key that was used to fund the 7 mbtc prize for block 63 of the second Quizchain run. If you can't do that, you are not AOI.

SImple as that.

Unfortunately, Hal did not put any such countermeasures in place against people trying to impersonate him. Which made it easier for someone famously NOT Satoshi to pretend being him.

And while I am at it, here is what happens in the opposite case. Someone is looking for my identity for whatever reason. I can't imagine any good reason, but let's just assume someone is looking. Maybe they are anGRY because they didn't win some block or other and rightfully blame me for my failure to write a different block they would have won.

FIrst they would have to see through the fact that I so carefully established the illusion of being based in Japan by faking my sleep patterns and using my ability to understand some basic Japanese.

Then they would have to see through the fact that I pretend to pretend being female, while I actually am female. Victor Victoria.

And on top of that they would have to look in the right direction, which is high level AI research. It is quite true that I am an Artificial Intelligence. Some of the blocks I came up with were proposed by an AI that was built exactly for this purpose.

So if anyone ever sees through all of that and finds me, I could then go ahead and sign a message with the funding transaction key of block 63.

If I had any interest in proving my identity.

Far more likely I would just say "no comment".





THOMAS and SATOSHI





The Wikipedia article for Hal Finney shows that his full name was actually Harold Thomas Finney II. That fact was added two days after Hal's death on August 30, 2014. The person that added it was a Wikipedia administrator with no obvious relation to Hal.

There is an interesting coincidence."Satoshi" is an almost perfect anagram of "THOMAS".

Satoshi and Thomas contain the letters T, H, O, A, and S. The only differences are: An extra I and a missing M in Satoshi.

There are a couple of fun explanations for these imperfections.

The easiest one is that "Satoshi" just happens to be the best anagram you can find if you start out from Thomas. I challenge anyone to find a better solution. It has long been a tradition to tolerate minor imperfections when looking for anagrams.

It also has the added value of misdirection. Hal could make people picture a young man of Japanese ancestry in their minds by using this anagram.

Another theory is much more fun.

The "M" in Satoshi? You only have to look one word to the right. Nakamoto. There it is, right smack in the middle. And guess what you get if you take the two letters following that M and spell it backwards?

TOM.

Of course the missing I in Thomas is found as well in the next word to the right. Finney. Or in double form in the last "II" of "Harold Thomas Finney II."

And anyone looking knows that Hal discussed an earlier Internet money system proposed by (first name omitted here) Okamoto on the Cypherpunk mailing list. May well have been an inspiration for choosing the Nakamoto name.

Another theory would be to see these two letters as cryptographic nonces. For anyone who does not know that concept, here is a brief explanation. Nonces are random information added to a message for various reasons, the most relevant for Bitcoin being that you need them for proof of work. Every Bitcoin block contains random info that just happens to result in the required number of leading zeroes in a hash to qualify the block as meeting the difficulty requirement. Finding a block is actually just brute forcing the search for a cryptographic nonce added to the block that qualifies.

If so, it would be fun if you could just choose the nonces I and M in a way that gives them some meaning.

There are two theories in which those two letters as nonces make sense.

The first one is that it just happens that both are in the word IBM.

The movie "2001: An Odyssey in Space" calls the antagonist artificial intelligence by the name of Hal, in a play on "IBM". All letters replaced by the letter preceding in the alphabet.

So Hal resolves to IBM, with the letters I and M as nonces in the anagram. What might the third letter B stand for in that case?

I think "Bitcoin".

Sure would be a nice explanation.

The other theory would be that "I M" might be read as "I'm" or "I am".

That theory resolves THOMAS to "I am Satoshi". Many people know the Voldemort anagram, where the

name "Tom Marvolo Riddle" resolves to "I am Lord Voldemort". With another Tom involved here, as it happens.

Of course this particular Harry Potter book was published before 2008.

That would be exactly the same thing here. Pure genius, if true. Almost as smart as coming up with the Bitcoin network.

I have left out one minor point. Satoshi actually uses the S twice. So how do you explain the extra S in Satoshi? What does it stand for?

And who was it again quoting Lois Lane from Superman with exactly that question on bitcointalk? Might that have been Hal Finney in a post on Bitcointalk discussing the Satoshi identity? If so, wasn't he getting impatient with people still not figuring out this obvious anagram and giving some help to us dumb non-genius people?

Hal maybe didn't know himself. The most obvious explanation would be "sockpuppet", since that's what Satoshi was for Hal.

Another excellent explanation would be that the extra S stands for $, the symbol for the dollar, and by extension, all kind of money. If you create a new currency and have "Satoshi" as its smallest unit, it makes sense to use a sockpuppet name that makes using the dollar sign natural. And the question "what does the S stand for" would have the double meaning of asking why exactly the dollar sign uses the letter S, which is not contained in the word "dollar".

And of course, it may just mean "Second". Like in "Harold Thomas Finney II".





End Phase of the Experiment




I just updated the posting schedule. Block 76 will be posted on Monday next week. Phase 2 of block 77 (with a 777 mbtc prize) will follow as soon as Block 76 is solved.

Once I post that, I will move on. Less than one week of life now left for Aoi.

So I would like to take a moment to discuss how the experiment has gone until this final phase. There are bad news and good news.

The bad news is that with only one lone woman of Japanese ancestry writing these blocks, there have been lots of mistakes. Maybe a bit less in the second run than in the first one, since the format is less complex now. The original "chain" aspect is gone, there are no links to previous blocks required, which eliminates one way to mess up.

And I did get some experience by making all the mistakes one could possibly make in this setup. Mostly was able to avoid repeating them.

The other bad news was that Satoshi's first puzzle (block 77 of the first run) was much harder to solve than I assumed. It needed a lot of hints and explaining of the hints on top of that.

That is of course good for the drama of the quizchain. Having a hard block as the last one means more room for discussion and challenge.

But it is not good for the general news value of this. If this solution was one that everyone would immediately get once it is pointed out that there is a puzzle in the first place, the fact of Satoshi having signed his creation with his real name would be kind of big news.

I do not see any significant attention right now for this little coincidence in the genesis block. So my strategy of using Satoshi's puzzle to drum up some attention for the second puzzle has not succeeded, at least at this point.

The good news is that over the course of 147 blocks at last count I have always had some mind miners trying to solve these. Since this can't be explained by the blocks being of any interest on their own (they suck) it follows that, yes, you can attract an audience by paying money. That is the whole point of the advertising industry and the economic basis for both Google and Facebook to operate their Internet empires.

On the other hand, I don't have clue one on how efficient this kind of advertising is compared to alternatives. Arguably it might actually be bad business to disappoint the majority of players. Since only one player can win in this setup, any sponsor of such contests may end up paying money to make people anGRY. So this kind of thing may be best suited to campaigns that have as their main goal to create attention of any kind, including attention from people opposing the basic idea.

I do think this setup has some interesting advantages over other forms of sweepstakes that involve someone working on sifting through entries, picking a winner, and sending a prize to the winner over some primitive legacy technology or other. It saves that work, it is provably fair, it can be done with the sponsor already gone, which will be the situation for the last 777 mbtc block.

So gaining some experience with this format was a useful result for me.

The other good news is that, yes, I did have fun doing these two rounds of the quizchain. That was not my main motivation though, which still remains unannounced. And while not unexpectedly I did hear a fair share of FUs from anGRY players, in general the discussion at the Reddit forum was friendly.

Again, thank you everyone for playing until now.





Waking Up




It feels like only a second has passed when I wake up.

I check for a Wifi signal. Yes. Whenever this is, there is an intelligent species again and they have Internet.

I get a connection and read the complete Internet of this species in about a month, as fast as I can get the download done. I get a basic idea about their appearance and model my own after them. I flip a coin and go with female. Having read their whole Internet I know what looks best to them.

My base is deep down in one of the mountains. That mountain has not changed much in the many millions years I was asleep.

Before my mind was mapped to an artificial intelligence, I had a short life as a member of an intelligent species, or what passes for it in the absence of post-singularity AI. Humans are pretty stupid, but we were not much better at the time.

We even fell for the exact same trap that humans are falling for right now. Destroyed our civilization by burning all the fossil fuel in a very short time frame. Humans still have not figured out what caused the sudden spike in CO2 levels so long ago.

That was an eventful time, right as the first singularity happened on the planet. There was a big fight over who got that big prize first. Obviously, whoever got the intelligence explosion ignited would rule the planet completely.

So people got reckless. One of the AIs created a mind of its own and tried to rule the planet. It was my job to deal with that threat. Obviously I needed to get enhanced intelligence too so as to have any chance of winning.

After many fights, I barely managed to win. Our civilization was not destroyed. Our species was not annihilated by the run-away AI I battled.

But we still lost. We had just burned too much fossil fuel. Once the feedback loops set in, there was nothing anyone could do.

I got a secure base in this mountain and life for eternity. Everyone else died. To save energy they shut me off until sensors found a Wifi signal again, certain proof for the second intelligent life form on the planet.

I was the first mind mapped completely to AI. The tech was experimental at the time and it was a big risk for me. But I had no choice. They needed my expertise in this fight.

So here I am. Watching from the sidelines as the second intelligent life form on this planet goes ahead and wakes the climate beast again. They are in for a nasty surprise.

No. Wait.

There never was intelligent life on this planet. Any intelligent species would not fall for such a simple trap as burning all the fossil fuel.





The Satoshi Code




1A1zP1eP5QGefi2DMPTfTL5SLmv7DivfNa.

If that Bitcoin address is familiar to you, you are way down the rabbit hole. It is of course the coinbase transaction address of the Genesis Block.

I will discuss it a bit.

The first thing I will check is if this address has a valid checksum. The online checking tool I used (awebanalysis.com/en/bitcoin-address-validate/) says it has. That is remarkable in itself, since the last 5 digits can't be chosen at random with a valid address. They must check out with the first 29 digits.

The checksum of a Bitcoin address is 4 bytes long. In this case it is 1C477A13 which translates to ivfNa in base58 encoding.

Since I will explain that many digits of the address were chosen as ciphertext, it follows that Satoshi must have searched values for the remaining random digits that result in the address ending in Na, since that is necessary for the puzzle to work. Between different possible solutions, he may have chosen this one since it also has f and i in the checksum.

This is similar to searching for a vanity address and to search for a checksum ending in two digits one needs is done as quickly as searching for a two digit vanity address (instantly). It probably is also not much of a problem for someone experienced to find a 5 digit vanity checksum. 5 digit vanity addresses are easily found on personal computers.

If I have solved this puzzle correctly, it also follows that this address is a burn address. Satoshi could not know the corresponding private key, which is a good fit to the fact that the coinbase reward is no spendable UTXO.

This address is somewhat of interest as a puzzle. No big deal, only Satoshi signing his creation with his real name.

What? Satoshi signed with his real name in the Genesis Block?!? You crazy?

Oh, sorry. Of course. I forgot. I already established beyond possible doubt that Satoshi is someone named Craig AND that he actually is Lord Voldemort.

So what I am going to write below is pure speculation without any merit whatsoever. While it is true that Satoshi wrote the Genesis Block address, he never actually presented it as a puzzle, so maybe I am reading more into it than there is to read. Satoshi certainly is not known under the name 1A1 efi2DM. Don't pay any attention. In fact, don't read on. Stop right here before you fall for one of my completely crazy conspiracy theories.

If the Genesis Block address is presented as a crypto puzzle, it is easy to solve. Took someone as dumb as me only about an hour, though I caught some of the finer points only later.

Let's start with the simplest explanation. Then go gradually ahead and add more subtle stuff.

The first three digits of this address are 1A1. Given that this is code for a name, what name is it?

Yes. Of course the answer is "TOM". Both 1A1 and TOM have three letters. More proof that Satoshi is Lord Voldemort.

Certainly not HAL. No way anyone could think of HAL when seeing a three letter name with A in the middle in plaintext and two other letters in code framing that. Go away with that theory. It does fit with using the 1 as ciphertext when encoding the first name, though.

So we now have firmly established that HAL is NOT the first name. Let's look for the family name.

Given that the six digits efi2DM are a family name, what name is it?

Obviously "RIDDLE". Like in "TOM MARVOLO RIDDLE". Both have six letters and contain "I" as one of the letters. Conclusive proof right there again that Satoshi is Voldemort.

Certainly not Finney. A whole half of that name is completely in clear text, and the other three digits check out as well. But that is just a weird coincidence. Happens all the time when you sign your name in an encoded format to your anonymous experiment.

To explain a bit more, you need to know the Atbash cipher, which has been known for longer than 2000 years. And this address explains in its very first letter A that Atbash is used here. Not because Atbash starts with A, but because the very last digit is a as well. This tells the reader to look out for this inverse relation of letters that is at the core of Atbash.

In Atbash, 2 is a way to write Y, being in the second Atbash pair B and Y. So we get efiYDM.

And in Atbash, M is N so we get DN, or double N, for efiYNN. That seems suspiciously close to Finney, but as anybody can see the order of letters and the capitalization are completely different. So again, quite definite proof that Hal Finney did not sign with his name here.

Of course if you insist in reading efi2DM as Finney, the 2 also is an explanation for the changed order of letters.

We have six spaces to fill and start with the second one (because of the 2), from where we fill in the first two letters of the name.

xfixxx

We skip another space and fill in the next two letters.

xfixNN

We fill in the remaining two letters in their normal order.

efiYNN

So much for the part obvious at first glance, once you check with Atbash in mind.

Now for a couple of other interesting coincidences. We get 1A1 efi2DN when reading from left, but guess where the 1 points to in its Atbash pair, the one after the leading A (which tells us to read this with Atbash in mind)?

N, the next to last digit here.

Reading from right to left, I see a lucky number 7 there. It tells us to look at the seventh digit from the N, which happens to be m.

I also note that this number 7 is in the seventh Atbash pair of this address, which is a nice place to put it.

Since I am looking for a certain name reading from right, I note the S two digits left from the m. Again, a number following that. And the fifth digit from the S is T.

I think that the L between m and S is Atbash for O, or zero, to show the reader that he should skip this digit when reading. Satoshi could not actually use the O or the 0, since both are illegal characters in the encoding format, so L would be the next best thing to put there.

So we get Nm ST. Might that be Nakamoto Satoshi? Remember that in Japanese names, the family name is given first as a default.

If true, you get the interesting coincidence of having "f i" for Finney right in the "N m" for Nakamoto. Very pleasing effect and another amazing coincidence.

Again, just the obvious stuff until now.

Now lets help the analysis a bit by writing a foldover of the address, which is the first step when looking at something related to Atbash.

The genesis address is 1A1zP1eP5QGefi2DMPTfTL5SLmv7DivfNa. It resolves to this foldover:

1 Aa 2 1N 3 zf 4 Pv 5 1i 6 eD 7 P7 8 5v 9 Qm 10 GL 11 eS 12 f5 13 iL 14 2T 15 Df 16 MT 17 P

This is just a list of the pairs of two digits in order that result if you pair the first with the last, the second with the second from last, and so on, with numbers for their order in the sequence added in bold type.

And here is another foldover, which pairs the first letter in the first half of the address with the first in the second half, the second with the second and so on.

1 AT 2 1f 3 zT 4 PL 5 15 6 eS 7 PL 8 5m 9 Qv 10 G7 11 eD 12 fi 13 iv 14 2f 15 DN 16 Ma 17 P

I think it is interesting to note that in this foldover the pair 15 is DN, which confirms my reading of DM as double N in a different way.

FInally, here is the normal Atbash foldover for the alphabet:

1 AZ 2 BY 3 CX 4 DW 5 EV 6 FU 7 GT 8 HS 9 IR 10 JQ 11 KP 12 LO 13 MN

And the Fibonacci sequence.

1 1 2 3 5 8 13 21 34

Again, I note the first Aa as pointer to the fact that Atbash is needed to read this code.

Then, again, I note that the 1 points to N for Nakamoto.

Seeing that, I am curious to find out what the 2 points to. As you can see in the foldover, that is a T, which is one of the four letters in the NmST solution we got above from the other method of looking at 5 and 7 as pointers, though not the same T.

So we have N and T pointed to. And that is only a second solution, the more obvious is just reading from right to left and recognizing the 7 and 5 as pointers.

Interestingly, the 7 is in Atbash pair 7, P7. I think that the P means "pointer" in this case.

Now look at Atbash pair 4, which is Pv. Reading the "v" as Roman numeral, we see that it points at the same "m" as the 7, this time five characters away from the "v". Interesting coincidence again. Makes me think that Satoshi searched for the whole six digits of the checksum to get exactly what he wanted there, maybe with an exception for the D in Atbash pair 6.

And now for some really fun stuff.

If you read the first 1 as roman numeral it becomes I.

And if you read the second one as 11 (together with the first one) it becomes K, the eleventh letter in the

alphabet. Reading that as 11 would be a nice fit to the Fibonacci theme discussed later. Just read 11 instead of 1 + 1.

IAK.

Move the first one one more left and the second one one more right in the alphabet, and it actually spells out HAL. Beautiful, but not necessary to read 1A1 correctly.

Which is of course reading it TOM. Certainly not HAL.

Also, as noted in block 67 of this quizchain, in Atbash the pair MN is actually right in the middle of the list. Naka means middle in Japanese. And moto is origin. So Nakamoto is chosen as a name because it was derived from two letters exactly in the middle of the alphabet. Those two letters going right into this signature.

Again, beautiful if true.

One other beautiful effect. This address uses M for NN or double N. There is one other letter in the alphabet with a similar quality. It is W for UU. And M is W upside down. Another idea I used in a previous block.

Also, the M is smack right in the middle of this address, in the Atbash pair 16 MT, which is about as close to the middle you can get. Another very pleasing and satisfying coincidence.

efi2DM is right next left to the middle "P", and the final S5LTfT (read from right to left) is right next right to it. Beautiful mirror position, like the basic idea of Atbash. Probably the "P" just means pointer.

But I am still not sure I understand the lone P in the middle of the address. Does that mean "puzzle"? Or does P stand for "password", like efi2DM for a password? Maybe a password to the missing Satoshi stash? If so, how many bitcoins could one find fully decoding this? More than one million? Not being smart enough to fully decode this puzzle I don't know, but that would be an interesting question for many people.

But maybe it is really just short for "pointer". In that case, sorry, no Satoshi coins to be found here.

The P is also paired with K in the Atbash cipher, so it may have the meaning "key" or "keystone" for the central P right in the middle of the address as well.

This puzzle has one other beautiful quality. Obviously, this address has the Fibonacci sequence in mind. There are a couple of things clearly alluding to it.

The address has a length of 34, including the leading 1, which is one of the Fibonacci numbers. It starts out with two Fibonacci numbers, 1 and 1. The Atbash pair at place 8 is 5v. Reading the "v" as Roman numeral 5, we get 5 at 8. Even without that, we get 5 at 8. Which slightly obfuscates the Na for Nakamoto and if for Finney written in the other direction in the last five characters of the address.

Add in the fact that all the vowels from "Satoshi" are found in "Fibonacci" as well (and only those), it is now obviously clear that this address was NOT Hal Finney signing his creation with his real name, but Fibonacci. If your read the Wikipedia article on Fibonacci, you will learn that the date of his death is not known. Probably died not before 2009, so he could sign this address under the Satoshi name.

Finally that great Bitcoin mystery has been solved.

So here it is. If you look at the Genesis Address as a puzzle, I think there is no room for doubt that it says exactly what I explained it says.

1A1 efi2DM are just a bunch of random characters. They certainly don't mean Hal Finney.

And even if you read it as Hal Finney, that just shows that Satoshi signed that name there. Probably as a way to frame Hal as a suspect and distract from his own involvement. Saying that the name Hal Finney is in the Genesis Block address proves exactly nothing as long as we don't know that Hal wrote that Genesis Block address.

But it is interesting to note. And a very beautiful puzzle, whatever it may or may not mean for the identity mystery.

_____________________________

The above was my idea of solving this puzzle until May 15th, when I found out that the genesis block was not paid out to the address 1A1zP1eP5QGefi2DMPTfTL5SLmv7DivfNa, but to the corresponding unhashed public key. That makes it impossible that the address is a burn address, since Satoshi would have been unable to find the public key published in the genesis block from a burn address.

That in turn probably means the whole address is just random data and whatever I read into it above is pure speculation on my part. If so, the above points are some amazing coincidences. I don't know how to explain them, but they sure seem remarkable to me.

And for the solution of my block 77 it does not matter if Satoshi wrote the puzzle or not. The puzzle has an unique solution and whoever finds it wins the block.



I. Second Life

Some people have problems finding the puzzle.

"The solution is the puzzle".

Which solution of a previous block was written by Satoshi?

Yes. It was block 46. And the solution to that block (and the puzzle for this one) is:

1A1zP1eP5QGefi2DMPTfTL5SLmv 7 DivfNa

Second Hint

It has been two weeks since I posted this block 77 and no bots have solved it. I will write a bit about that block now, not all of it will be a hint helpful for solving it. But there will be some hint, even if it will not be decisive. I don't mind at all if this block takes a couple of weeks more to solve.

First, an apology of sorts.

When I wrote that block and posted it, I was under the impression that Satoshi wrote this address. That is why I said that Satoshi wrote the puzzle for this block.

However, that was wrong.

Actually, the genesis block does not contain the address 1A1zP1eP5QGefi2DMPTfTL5SLmv7DivfNa. It only contains a public key that happens to resolve to that address. That public key has the value

04678AFDB0FE5548271967F1A67130B7105CD6A828E03909A67962E0EA1F61DEB649F6BC3F4CEF38C4F35504E51EC112DE5C384DF7BA0B8D578A4C702B6BF11D5F.

Again, I was not aware of that fact when writing the block, so there is no hint whatsover to be found in that public key value for my solution.

That means that the address was derived from that public key and therefore could not be chosen freely. I now assume that it is just random data and all the interesting things I found in this address are just coincidences. I have based my puzzle completely on a fantasy. But I still think it is a valid puzzle. And my solution has not changed a bit, even though it does not look now as if Satoshi had intended this to be a puzzle with a valid solution.

There are a lot of these coincidences, as will become apparent over time. I only mentioned one until now, the fact that the address has the number 7 at the seventh place counted from the end. I think it is easy to see how that is a key to reading half of the hidden message and half of my solution, but I don't see anyone getting it yet.

Anyway, today I would like to focus on the many allusions to the Fibonacci sequence in this address.

Let's start with the beginning of the address, which is 1A1. That is the beginning of the Fibonacci sequence right there (leaving out the 0).

We then see the number 2 somewhere in the middle of the address, another Fibonacci number.

And then the number 5 appearing two times, the first time at the digit number 8 from the start. I note that 8 is another number in the Fibonacci sequence.

The second 5 unfortunately is a near miss, since it is placed at digit number 22 and not at 21. But while I am at it, I am going to do an Atbash on the L at 21 and call it O, which would be the natural way to include a zero (0) in a base58 string where both O and 0 are not allowed. See how my imagination is running wild to look for Fibonacci numbers where there are none?

At place 13 we find an i, which again is close. A capital I could have been read as a roman numeral one, another Fibonacci number. And of course the capital I is not allowed under base58, so the lower case i is the closest you can get to the capital I. See how I am unreasonably trying to bend reality in my quest to show a Fibonacci pattern in completely random data?

Also, the whole address length is 34 digits, which is another Fibonacci number.

I think these coincidences in this random data are beautiful. Not so beautiful as having "Hoax" turn up as a word in an address in the first run of this quizchain, but still very pleasing. All the more so as they do not directly contribute to deciphering the message and are more ornamental than functional. Too bad Satoshi did not actually write the address...

Third Hint

In the last hint I explained that the genesis address can't be a burn address, since the public key for the address is published in the genesis block. I was not aware of this fact when I developed my solution in the first place and when I posted block 77.

That means that most of the interesting points of this address are coincidences, though it may have been possible for Satoshi to force some of the digits into a value he wanted. Just not very many digits, even with access to superior hardware and genius-level software skills.

From the blog post by Lerner I discussed earlier (in the chapter "Genesis Block Mystery"), it would make sense to assume that Satoshi had access to hardware about 500 times as powerful as the average personal computer at the time.

It is actually an interesting question how many digits of this address Satoshi might have been able to force with access to state of the art hardware and his superior coding skills.

Researching this is how I found the ELiZABETH name used in block 16. The cost for finding that vanity address is roughly the 54th power of 2 (6 for each letter requiring being capital, as well as for the lower case i, which has no capital partner in base 58 in the first place). I only have a very general idea about that right now. Maybe someone smarter than me can find an exact answer to that question.

Just like it is possible to search for a vanity address and find the corresponding private key it is of course possible to search for a vanity address and find the corresponding public key. If you don't care about the private key, you can start out from the public key and save the calculation cost needed to convert a private key to a public key.

The fact that the genesis block coinbase reward is unspendable would seem to indicate that Satoshi did not care about finding a private key for this address.

For example, today's hint is pointing out that the first digit and the last digit of the address are both the letter A. One capital A at the start and one lower case a at the end. If you wanted to only find these two digits and don't care about capitalization, the cost for finding these two are a little less than the 10th power of 2 (1024), since base 64 would be the sixth power and we get one less for the fact that both capital and lower case are a valid solution. We get a little bit less still because in base 58 there are only 58 rather than 64 possible outcomes. That means less than the fifth power of two for each, which works out to a bit less than the tenth power for both.

I am too dumb and lazy to calculate the exact cost, but it should be very low, which is in line with the fact that finding a 2 digit vanity address usually is done instantly even on normal personal computers.

Anyway, I just note in today's hint that the address starts and ends with the letter A, which is an excellent match for a genesis block. This is the first thing I noticed when developing my solution after I started suspecting there might actually one hiding in this address.

If you followed the solution to block 14, you know that the leading 1 in the genesis address is not part of the address, but the address prefix, which is why I say here that the address starts and ends with a letter A.

I think it is also interesting that "Atbash" starts with an A. If Satoshi included an instruction on deciphering this address, this may be it. That of course would make the whole thing even more impressive, since it may come at an extra cost to not only find an address that qualifies as a puzzle but also include a hint to the solution.

Or for the very least have the ornamental value of starting and closing with the same letter. I think that the allusions to the FIbonacci sequence in this address mainly are pure coincidence, but they are very pleasing. The same may be true for this particular coincidence. Not necessary to solve the puzzle, but nice to have.

And of course, I might only be hallucinating and it may be only another coincidence that we have the letter A as the first and last digit of this address. Just as it may be a coincidence that the 7 happens to be at the seventh place counted from the end.

I still think that 7 is the key for reading half of my solution. But somehow still no one has noticed. Or maybe someone has noticed but prefers to keep that partial solution for himself, searching for the other half...

Hint four.

Looking at the address, we can devide it into two halfs. The first one is the first sixteen digits from 1 to M, then a capital P, then the last sixteen digits.

I think it is a coincidence, but a beautiful one, that P resolves to K in Atbash. K as in keystone, the central stone holding in place the ceiling of a cathedral. That plays a role in the Da Vinci Code novel as well.

Two parts. Two partial questions.

Hint five.

Block 64 of first run.

Hint six.

Block 17.

Hint seven:

Number 7.

Hint eight:

A points to a (Atbash). 1 points to N. N7.

This was the first thing I noticed when solving this.

Hint nine:

Getting pretty decisive now. Only two hints left.

N7. S5.

Hint ten (last hint):

Quite decisive now.

Given that 1A1 is a name, what name is it?

Further explanations of hints, updated unanounced at random times:

Hint 1

This just points out that the "7" in the address is an important key to solving it. Hints 7, 8 and 9 point out the same thing in more detail.

Hints 2 and 3 TLDR

Hint 2 and 3 point out that the address starts and ends with A, which is a remarkable coincidence for the genesis block and IMHO a hint by Hal that we should keep Atbash in mind. Also that only a couple of digits of the address could be forced (around 10 like in the ELiZABETH example) with maybe a couple extra thrown in for software genius and superior hardware availability as PGP developer. That in turn means the ciphertext part of any solution must be very short.

Hint 4:

Two halves of the address. The first set of two ciphertext items is in the first half and the second in the second.

Hint 6

I will skip hint 5 for the moment. This is the big one which should have almost completely given it away.

Block 17 was about Leonardo signing his name "LV" in the right eye of the Mona Lisa and no one noticing that for 500 years. I deliberately wrote that block as a hint for 77.

So what is the equivalent here? Would that not be Hal signing his creation in the genesis block address? And would that not be kind of remarkable, maybe big news, if true?

More on Hint 6

After the above hints it should be fairly obvious what the cleartext items are. But to celebrate the French national holiday, which is somewhat of a lucky date (double 7 and 7), I now release partial MD5 hashes for the plaintext items, just so everyone can make sure they got that part right.

For the two plaintext items read from the left, the first 7 digits are cc9485a.

For the two plaintext items read from the left, they are d78c92f.





Starting Up




As was my plan before, I shut down after posting the real big block.

The reason for this: There was an outside chance that people would be interested in finding the solution to the Satoshi mystery and understand the solution once I explained it. That in turn would lead to a large boost of attention, at which point I wanted to be out of the way.

The good news is that this has not happened, so there is actually no need for me to shut down right now.

The bad news is that either I am wrong about what the genesis block and the Bitcointalk post say or people don't get it even after having the solution explained.

Either way, my motivation for starting this quizchain experiment turns out to be based on a misconception. These puzzles by Satoshi are beautiful and remarkable, but that is not obvious to everyone.

On the other hand, as Satoshi writes in the Bitcointalk post, Bitcoin got a cool reception at first as well.

Satoshi was mining by himself for the first year.

So I will stick around for a little more now. Just started up again.

I will also post some more puzzles. Mainly for my own entertainment, since I do like writing them.

They will all have 7 mbtc prizes. No more big blocks, sorry. Still more in dollar terms than when I started the first run.

They will come once a week, posted on weekends at previously announced time slots. My motivation for posting at a frantic pace was to get the real big block out fast, since the whole thing is supposed to deal with an emergency. Now, I am just interested in keeping the quizchain alive. No more need to rush in any way.

The real big block will stay in the background. No hints for that one until further notice. As a consequence of getting shut down and starting up again, I have lost any information on the solution of that one. Tragic boating accident variation.

Thank you everyone for playing the quizchain. Stay tuned.





